 
 
Combination Reg. No. C-2016/04/387 (S. 43A)                                                                                                                                                   Page 1 of 13 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2016/04/387) 
11/05//2018 
 
Notice given by LT Foods Limited and LT Foods Middle East DMCC 
 
CORAM 
 
Mr. Devender Kumar Sikri 
Chairperson  
 
 
Mr. Sudhir Mital 
Member 
 
 
Mr. Augustine Peter  
Member 
 
 
Mr. U. C. Nahta 
Member 
 
 
Mr. Justice G. P. Mittal 
Member 
 
 
 
Appearances during the oral 
hearing held on 2nd August, 2017  
: 
Mr. Neeraj Chaudhary, Advocate  
Mr. Praveen Raju, Advocate 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
Background: 
 
1. 
On 7th April, 2016, LT Foods Limited (LT Foods) and LT Foods Middle 
East DMCC (LT DMCC) (hereinafter both LT Foods and LT DMCC 

 
 
Combination Reg. No. C-2016/04/387 (S. 43A)                                                                                                                                                   Page 2 of 13 
shall collectively be referred to as the Acquirers) gave a notice to the 
Competition Commission of India (Commission) under Section 6(2) of 
the Competition Act, 2002 (Act), wherein the Acquirers sought the 
approval of the Commission for their proposed acquisition of the business 
of processing of raw material for rice, marketing, distribution, export and 
sale of  various types of rice, including trademarks and associated 
goodwill (Combination), from Hindustan Unilever limited (HUL). The 
notice was filed pursuant to the execution of a Framework Agreement on 
17th March, 2016, between HUL, LT DMCC, LT Foods and Sona Global 
Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of LT Foods (Framework 
Agreement). 
 
2. 
The Commission approved the combination vide its order dated 11th May, 
2017, passed under Section 31(1) of the Act. This approval was granted 
without prejudice to the proceedings under Section 43A of the Act.  
 
Section 43A Proceedings: 
 
3. 
Upon a perusal of the notice and further submissions made by the 
Acquirers, the Commission in its meeting held on 11th May, 2016 noted 
that in terms of Clause 3.1 (i) of the Framework Agreement, the Acquirers 
were required to pay an advance consideration of INR 1.70 crore to HUL, 
at the time of execution of the Framework Agreement. In their submission 
dated 27th April, 2016, the Acquirers further clarified that they had 
deposited the advance consideration with HUL as an indication of good 
faith intention to complete the proposed combination. Based on these 
facts, the Commission was convinced that there exist a prima facie case of 
contravention of the obligation under Section 6(2) of the Act, as the 
Acquirers paid a part of the consideration for combination to the HUL 

 
 
Combination Reg. No. C-2016/04/387 (S. 43A)                                                                                                                                                   Page 3 of 13 
even before the approval of the combination by the Commission. 
Therefore, the Commission decided to initiate penalty proceedings against 
the Acquirers under  Section 43A of the Act by issuing a notice in terms of 
Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India (General) 
Regulations, 2009 (General Regulations).   
 
4. 
In accordance with the directions of the Commission, a notice dated 13th 
June 2016 was issued to the Acquirers to show cause, in writing, within 15 
days of the receipt of notice, as to why penalty in terms of Section 43A of 
the Act, should not be imposed upon them. The Acquirers filed their 
response on 24th June, 2016 along with a request for oral hearing. 
 
5. 
The Commission noted that certain measures to be undertaken by HUL, in 
terms of the Framework Agreement, as a condition precedent to the 
combination or an obligation post execution of the Framework Agreement 
prima facie appear to be in contravention of the obligation of the parties 
under Section 6(2) read with Section 6(2A) of the Act. The details of such 
measures as under:  
 
(a) 
Clause 5.1 of the Framework Agreement: HUL shall deliver upon 
execution date, and no later than 7 days thereof, all documents like 
posters, packaging labels, art work, distribution marketing 
materials, slogans and all such materials as would enable LT Foods 
to commence preparation and production of packing material as is 
required for the sale of the finished products;  
 
(b) 
Clause 5.4 (vi) of the Framework Agreement: As a condition 
precedent, HUL shall register the trademarks being transferred in 
certain territories;  

 
 
Combination Reg. No. C-2016/04/387 (S. 43A)                                                                                                                                                   Page 4 of 13 
 
(c) 
Clause 5.4 (ix) of the Framework Agreement:  HUL shall introduce, 
within seven days of the execution of the Framework Agreement, 
LT DMCC to designer and printer engaged by HUL for packaging 
and artwork of the products being transferred;  
 
(d) 
Clause 6.2(vi) of the Framework Agreement: Between the 
Execution Date and the Closing Date, HUL shall not incur any new 
promotional spends in respect of the business being acquired;  
 
(e) 
Clause 6.2 (vii) of the Framework Agreement:  HUL shall not exit 
or enter into any market in respect of the business being acquired; 
and  
 
(f) 
Clause 6.5 of the Framework Agreement: HUL shall provide all 
documents in relation to the trademarks being transferred within 30 
days of the execution date of the Framework Agreement.  
 
The Acquirers filed their submissions again on 20th February, 2017.   
 
6. 
The Commission considered the matter in its meeting held on 28th June, 
2017 and allowed the request of the Acquirers for an oral hearing. 
Accordingly, the Acquirers were heard on 2nd August, 2017. A summary 
of the oral and written submission of the Acquirers is as under:  
 
Payment of advance consideration: 
 
6.1. 
It is not uncommon in transaction of this nature for the acquirer to 
pay advance consideration/good faith deposit. The advance 

 
 
Combination Reg. No. C-2016/04/387 (S. 43A)                                                                                                                                                   Page 5 of 13 
consideration given is essentially a token returnable in case of the 
termination of the Framework Agreement. Payment of advance 
consideration does not result in “giving effect” to the combination 
as this does not result in direct or indirect acquisition of any share, 
voting right or asset, or acquisition of control.  
 
6.2. 
In terms of the Framework Agreement, approval of the 
Commission under Section 31(1) of the Act is a condition 
precedent to the closing of the transaction. At no stage, whatsoever, 
it was contemplated that the combination would be given effect to 
pending the formal approval of the Commission.  
 
6.3. 
Payment of advance consideration alone cannot determine the 
ability to influence the state of competition and such ability would 
arise only if the Acquirers exercise control over the target business.  
 
6.4. 
Regulation 9(5) of The Competition Commission of India 
(Procedure in regard to the transaction of business relating to 
combinations) Regulations, 2011 (Combination Regulations) 
provides that notification requirement shall be determined with 
reference to the substance of the transaction and structure of the 
transaction is immaterial. Drawing a parallel with the said 
provision, any pre-merger coordination shall also be assessed with 
reference to the substance of the transaction and not the structure of 
the same.  
 
6.5. 
In international jurisdictions such as European Commission, the 
United States and Brazil, there have been no instances where 

 
 
Combination Reg. No. C-2016/04/387 (S. 43A)                                                                                                                                                   Page 6 of 13 
refundable advance consideration has been treated as violation of 
standstill obligations. 
 
Obligation of HUL as a condition precedent or an obligation post 
execution of the Framework Agreement: 
 
6.6. 
None of the measures to be undertaken by HUL, as a condition 
precedent to the combination or an obligation post execution of the 
Framework Agreement, has the effect of lessening competition 
between the Acquirers and HUL in India. These provisions in the 
Framework Agreement does not result in a combination coming 
into effect. Accordingly, there is no contravention of the obligation 
under Section 6(2) read with Section 6(2A) of the Act. The said 
provisions of the Act prohibit the parties from giving effect to the 
combination prior to the Commission’s approval but do not bar 
ancillary or preparatory action, which are necessary to protect the 
value of investment by the Acquirer. 
 
6.7. 
Clause 5.5 (i) of the Framework Agreement states that receipt of all 
necessary authorizations is a condition precedent to the closing of 
combination. Further, Clause 5.3 (i) states that receipt of the 
Commission’s approval is a condition precedent to the completion 
of the combination. At no stage, whatsoever, it was contemplated 
that any effect would be given to the combination pending receipt 
of formal approval under Section 31(1) of the Act. 
 
6.8. 
With respect to the requirement of filing applications for 
registration of trademarks in certain territories [Clause 5.4 (vi)], it 
is submitted that the same was a perfection measure, on the part of 

 
 
Combination Reg. No. C-2016/04/387 (S. 43A)                                                                                                                                                   Page 7 of 13 
HUL, to protect its intellectual properties and the same does not 
amount to pre-merger coordination. Further, HUL had not 
registered/applied for trade marks in Oman and UAE despite 
significant business interest. 
 
6.9. 
On the restriction on promotional spends [Clause 6.2(vi)], it is 
submitted that the same was envisaged with a view to protect the 
investment of the Acquirers. Such stipulation protects investment 
from material adverse change before the closing of the 
combination. Promotions and advertising have a significant impact 
on brand outlook. It is in the bona fide interest of the Acquirers to 
prevent any new promotional spends with respect the business  
being acquired, which may be detrimental to the brand outlook. 
Similarly, the restriction on HUL to enter or exit markets in relation 
to the target business [Clause 6.2(vii)], is also with a view to 
protect investments. Entering or exiting a territory can have a 
significant effect on the target business and the said restriction is a 
standstill obligation on HUL to prevent any adverse material 
adverse change. 
 
6.10. As regard the requirement to handover documents relating to the 
trademarks being acquired [Clause 6.5], it is submitted that 
procurement of documents evidencing title to the asset being 
purchased, similar in the case of acquisition of shares or land or 
any other asset, is usual and norm for any transaction of the nature 
contemplated by the parties. Providing these materials do not in 
any manner lessen competition between the Acquirers and HUL. 
 

 
 
Combination Reg. No. C-2016/04/387 (S. 43A)                                                                                                                                                   Page 8 of 13 
7. 
The Acquirers have also submitted that they could not anticipate that 
impugned conduct would amount to a violation of the standstill obligation 
under Section 6(2) read with Section 6(2A) and are therefore entitled to 
leniency. Voluntary disclosure of the impugned conduct in the notice filed by 
the Acquirers and small size and scale of the combination were also 
suggested as mitigating circumstances.  
 
Commission’s Determination: 
 
8. 
The Commission has gone into the material on record as well as heard the 
Acquirers. The determination of the Commission is as under:  
 
8.1. 
The gist of the allegations contained in the notices issued by the 
Commission is that Acquirers paid/ deposited a part of the 
consideration for the Combination, even before the approval of the 
Commission. Further, the Framework Agreement envisaged certain 
measures to be taken by HUL that are alleged to be contrary to the 
standstill obligations contained in Section 6(2) read with 6(2A) of the 
Act.  
 
8.2. 
Before getting into the merits of the contentions of Acquirers, it would 
be appropriate to look into the relevant provisions of the Act. It is 
observed that the Act envisages ex-ante regulation of combinations. 
Section 6(1) of the Act prohibits combination that causes or likely to 
cause appreciable adverse effect on combination and Section 6(2) of 
the Act obliges parties to the combination to give notice to the 
Commission of their proposed combination. Further, Section 6(2A) of 
the Act provides that a combination notified to the Commission shall 
not come into effect for a period of 210 days from the date of 

 
 
Combination Reg. No. C-2016/04/387 (S. 43A)                                                                                                                                                   Page 9 of 13 
notification. For ease of reference, relevant extract of these provisions 
is reproduced below: 
 
“Regulation of combinations 
 
6 
(1) No person or enterprise shall enter into a 
combination which causes or is likely to cause an 
appreciable adverse effect on competition within the 
relevant market in India and such a combination shall 
be void. 
 
 
(2) Subject to the provisions contained in sub-section 
(1), any person or enterprise, who or which proposes to 
enter into a combination, shall give notice to the 
Commission, in the form as may be specified, and the 
fee which may be determined, by regulations, disclosing 
the details of the proposed combination, within thirty 
days of …. 
 
 
(2A) No combination shall come into effect until two 
hundred and ten days have passed from the day on 
which the notice has been given to the Commission 
under sub-section (2) or the Commission has passed 
orders under section 31, whichever is earlier.” 
 
(emphasis added) 
 
8.3. 
In order to enforce above provisions, including the ex-ante obligation 
of the parties thereunder, Section 43A was inserted into the Act, by 
way of an amendment in 2007, to empower the Commission to impose 
penalty in cases where parties fail to give notice in terms of Section 
6(2) of the Act. The text of Section 43A reads as under:  
 
“Power to impose penalty for non-furnishing of 
information on combinations 
 
43A.  
 
If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice 
to the Commission under sub- section (2) of 

 
 
Combination Reg. No. C-2016/04/387 (S. 43A)                                                                                                                                                   Page 10 of 13 
section 6, the Commission shall impose on such 
person or enterprise a penalty which may extend 
to one percent, of the total turnover or the assets, 
whichever is higher, of such a combination.” 
 
8.4. 
The scheme and purpose of the Act is to provide an opportunity to the 
Commission to evaluate the likely effects of the proposed combination 
on relevant market(s) and regulate them appropriately. If parties to the 
combination forfeit this statutory opportunity provided to the 
Commission, the same would attract penalty under Section 43A of 
Act.  
 
8.5. 
Coming back to the facts of the case, the Acquirers have argued that 
payment of advance consideration and the other impugned measures 
do not amount to giving effect to their combination. Further, all along, 
they have contended that all necessary approvals, including that of the 
Commission, are a condition precedent to the completion of the 
combination. In this is regard, it is observed that the obligation under 
Section 6(2) read with Section 6(2A) of the Act not only prohibits 
completion or closure of the transaction before the approval of the 
Commission but also the coordination between the parties to the 
combination. The intention of the parties to acquire, merge or 
amalgamate shall necessarily remain merely a proposal, and they shall 
not act upon their proposal, in part or full, until the approval of the 
Commission. Any coordination between them to the contrary would 
be a violation of the standstill obligation contained in Section 6(2) 
read with Section 6(2A) of the Act. For these reasons, the reliance 
placed by the Acquirers upon Regulation 9(5) of the Combination 
Regulations is also found misplaced.   
 

 
 
Combination Reg. No. C-2016/04/387 (S. 43A)                                                                                                                                                   Page 11 of 13 
8.6. 
The Acquirers sought to argue that the impugned conduct has not 
resulted in lessening of competition in any manner and therefore, 
penalty under Section 43A is not warranted. The Commission notes 
that lessening of competition or appreciable adverse effect on 
competition are not prerequisites for imposition of penalty under 
Section 43A of the Act. Such position has already been affirmed by 
the erstwhile Hon’ble Competition Appellate Tribunal, in its order 
dated 30th August, 2016, in Appeal No. 59/2015 titled SCM Soilfert 
Limited and Anr. v. Competition Commission of India. The Hon’ble 
Tribunal has even refused to take absence of appreciable adverse 
effect on competition as a mitigating factor while levying penalty 
under Section 43A of the Act. The relevant extract of the order is as 
under: 
 
“10.1 We are in complete agreement with the learned counsel 
for the respondent [Commission]. Sections 31 and 43A of the 
Act operate in two different fields. The Commission has the 
power to approve a combination under Section 31 and such 
approval neither obliterates nor condones the contravention, 
for which penalty is to be imposed under Section 43A. 
Approval under Section 31 is not even listed as a mitigating 
circumstance under Regulation 48 of the General Regulations 
which deals with the procedure for imposition of penalty. 
Accordingly, in our view Penalty under section 43A of the Act 
is leviable even if the combination has no appreciable adverse 
effect on competition.” 
(emphasis added) 
 
8.7. 
The Commission is also not in agreement with the Acquirers on the 
point that the standstill obligation under the Section 6(2) and Section 
6(2A) of the Act is applicable only to acquisition of control. Neither 
the provisions of the Act nor the regulations made thereunder 
postulate that penalty under Section 43A could be imposed only in 
cases were the pre-approval coordination between the parties has 

 
 
Combination Reg. No. C-2016/04/387 (S. 43A)                                                                                                                                                   Page 12 of 13 
resulted in acquisition or change in control. Even the legal norms and 
best practises across the globe, including the jurisdictions cited by the 
Acquirers, though not applicable to the instant proceedings, recognises 
gun jumping i.e. pre-merger coordination and prohibits the same. 
 
8.8. 
With respect to the impugned terms of the Framework Agreement, the 
Acquirers have submitted that they are preparatory in nature and does 
not amount to giving effect to the combination. Considering the 
submissions of the Acquirers, the Commission finds that the 
requirement to handover certain inventories to the Acquirers [Clause 
5.1], Acquirer’s introduction and interaction with the suppliers of the 
seller [Clause 5.4(ix)], restriction on promotional spending [Clause 
6.2(vi)], and the restriction on seller to enter or exit territories [Clause 
6.2(vii)], along with the pre-payment of consideration amount to a 
contravention of the standstill obligation contained in Section 6(2) 
read with Section 6(2A) of the Act. 
 
9. 
Having concluded a contravention of Section 6(2) of the Act, the 
Commission can impose penalty that may extend to one percent, of the total 
turnover or the assets, whichever is higher of the combination. In this case, 
the combined value of turnover and assets of the parties to the combination, 
for the financial year 2014-15, were around INR 35,473.49/- crore and INR 
16,898.3/- crore, respectively. Hence, a penalty of around INR 354/- crore 
could be imposed upon the Acquirer. However, considering the conduct of 
the parties and the circumstances of the case, wherein the contravention has 
been established based on the information voluntarily disclosed by the 
parties, who have extended full cooperation in furnishing information and the 
consideration of the Proposed Combination being small, the Commission has 
taken these as mitigating factors and considers it appropriate to impose a 

 
 
Combination Reg. No. C-2016/04/387 (S. 43A)                                                                                                                                                   Page 13 of 13 
nominal penalty of INR 5,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Five Lakhs only) on the 
Acquirer, which is only 0.14% of the maximum penalty that could be 
imposed.  
 
10. 
The Acquirers shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of 
receipt of this order. 
 
11. 
The Secretary is directed to transmit a copy of this order to the Acquirers 
forthwith.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
