 
 
Page 1 of 4 
 
Competition Commission of India 
Combination Division 
2nd April, 2013 
 
 
Combination Registration No. C-2013/02/109 
 
Order under Section 43 A of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
1. 
On 4th February, 2013, the Competition Commission of India (hereinafter referred to as 
the “Commission”) received a notice under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the 
Competition Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as the “Act”), given by Titan International, 
Inc. (hereinafter either referred to as “Titan International” or “Acquirer”) and Titan 
Europe PLC (hereinafter referred to as “Titan Europe”) (hereinafter Titan International 
and Titan Europe are collectively referred to as the “parties”).  
 
2. 
The combination involves the acquisition of the entire share capital of Titan Europe by 
Titan International, as a consequence of which Titan International has indirectly acquired 
35.91 per cent equity share capital of Wheels India Limited (hereinafter referred to as 
“Wheels India”) from Titan Europe. As stated in the notice, on 10th August, 2012, the 
parties announced that they had reached an agreement on the terms of a recommended 
share offer for the acquisition of the entire share capital of Titan Europe.  
 
3. 
Along with the notice, the parties also submitted an application for condonation of delay 
as the notice was given to the Commission beyond the time period specified in sub-
section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. The Commission considered the application for 
condonation of delay, in its meeting held on 20th February, 2013 and admitted the belated 
filing in terms of Regulation 7 of the Competition Commission of India (Procedure in 
regard to the transaction of business relating to combinations) Regulations, 2011 without 
prejudice to the action that may be taken under Section 43A of the Act. The Commission 
in the said meeting inter alia decided to initiate separate proceeding regarding imposition 
of penalty under Section 43A of the Act as the notice was not given within the time 
specified in sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act and accordingly, a show cause notice 
dated 21st February, 2013, in terms of Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of 
the Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009 was issued to the 
Acquirer. 
 
4. 
On 8th March, 2013, the Commission received the reply of the parties to the show cause 
notice wherein it was inter-alia submitted that: 
 
“……. The parties to the Combination are based in the United States of America 
and United Kingdom, respectively.  The acquisition of the entire share capital of 
Titan Europe by Titan International resulted in the indirect acquisition of the 
35.91 per cent equity share capital in Wheels India, which was held by Titan 

 
 
Page 2 of 4 
 
Europe. The parties’ omission to comply with Section 6(2) of the Act in the 
instant matter was altogether inadvertent and unintentional.  
 
As these are still  early days of implementation of competition laws in India, 
many companies globally (including the law firms advising them) are unaware of 
filing requirement in India especially for an indirect acquisition of shares or 
voting rights in an Indian company when the target enterprise (based abroad) 
has an interest in companies in many countries of the world. Further, the annual 
report of Titan Europe for the year ended 31st December, 2011, which the 
advisors of Titan International had referred to does not include the revenue from 
Wheels India in the consolidated revenue figures of Titan Europe because 
Wheels India is not a subsidiary of Titan Europe. The advisors of the parties to 
the combination omitted to refer to the section on associate and joint venture 
companies of the Annual Report for Titan Europe, which mentions its 35.91 per 
cent shareholding in Wheels India owing to the fact that they were seeking 
information on the significant revenue threshold that would trigger merger 
filings.    
 
At the time of making share offer, Titan International was unaware that a filing 
or notification under Section 6(2) of the Act with the CCI with respect to the 
indirect acquisition of shares of Wheels India would be triggered in India.  
 
We plead with  the Commission to  take a lenient view in the current 
circumstances as acts and omissions of the parties to the combination have not 
been guided by any mala fide intentions and they have filed the Form I as soon 
as possible after they became aware of the requirement to file under Section 6(2) 
of the Act.” 
 
5. 
The Commission considered the reply to the said show cause notice, given by the parties, 
in its meeting held on 19th March, 2013 and directed the Acquirer to appear before the 
Commission on 2nd April, 2013, to present its case as to why penalty in terms of Section 
43A of the Act should not be imposed upon it as the notice was not given within the time 
specified in sun-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. The Commission accordingly heard 
the legal representatives of the parties in its meeting held on 2nd April, 2013.  
 
6. 
Under the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, “any person or enterprise, 
who or which proposes to enter into a combination, shall give notice to the Commission, 
in the form as may be specified, and the fee which may be determined, by regulations, 
disclosing the details of the proposed combination, within thirty days of (a) approval of 
the proposal relating to merger or amalgamation, referred to in clause (c) of section 5, by 
the board of directors of the enterprises concerned with such merger or amalgamation, as 
the case may be; (b) execution of any agreement or other document for acquisition 
referred to in clause (a) of section 5 or acquiring of control referred to in clause (b) of that 
section”. The Commission in its Order dated 12th April, 2012, in the notice bearing 

 
 
Page 3 of 4 
 
Combination Registration No. C-2012/02/40 noted that any person or enterprise, who or 
which proposes to enter into a combination, has to mandatorily give a notice to the 
Commission under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act prior to entering into a 
combination. 
 
7. 
In the instant case, the parties had reached an agreement on the terms of the 
recommended share offer for the acquisition of entire share capital of Titan Europe on 
10th August, 2012 and therefore, in terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, the 
Acquirer ought to have given the notice to the Commission within thirty days of reaching 
the said agreement.  However, the Acquirer failed to give notice to the Commission in 
accordance with sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act as, already noted earlier,  the 
Acquirer gave the notice to the Commission only on 4th February, 2013 with a delay of 
around 147 days and that too after the combination had already taken effect.  
 
8. 
It has been submitted that the Acquirer was unaware that a filing or notification under 
sub-section 2 of Section 6 of the Act with respect to the indirect acquisition of shares of 
Wheels India, by Titan International would be triggered in India and therefore, the 
Acquirers’ omission to comply with sub-section 2 of Section 6 of the Act in the instant 
matter was altogether inadvertent and unintentional. However, considering the fact that 
the said notice as given by the parties was not only given belatedly but also after the 
combination had already taken effect, which is in contravention of the relevant provisions 
of the Act, the submission made by the parties, for not levying any penalty under Section 
43A of the Act is not agreed to. 
 
9. 
As per details provided in the notice, the value of assets and turnover of Titan 
International, Titan Europe and Wheels India are as follows: 
 
Details of Assets and Turnover 
Enterprise(s)  
Asset 
Turnover 
Titan International* 
(in $ billion) 
1.010 
1.487 
Titan Europe* 
(in $ billion) 
0.746 
0.790 
Wheels India** 
(in INR crore) 
 
1082.99 
 
2235.09 
                           *for the year ended 31.12.2011;             ** for the year ended 31.03.2012 
10. 
In terms of Section 43A of the Act, if any person or enterprise fails to give notice under 
sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, the Commission shall impose on such person or 
enterprise a penalty which may extend to one per cent of the total turnover or the assets, 
whichever is higher, of such a combination. It is, therefore, observed that although, in 
terms of Section 43A of the Act, the maximum penalty that may, therefore, be imposed 
on the Acquirer comes to approximately INR 145 crore1, however, considering the fact 
                                                          
1 Represent one per cent of the total turnover of Titan International, Titan Europe and Wheels India. Turnover of Titan International and 
Titan Europe has been converted into INR taking US$ 1= INR 54. 

 
 
Page 4 of 4 
 
that (a) both Titan International and Titan Europe are based outside India; (b) the said 
combination resulted from the acquisition of one foreign enterprise based outside India by 
another foreign enterprise based outside India; and (c) the parties, notwithstanding the 
delay, have voluntarily given the notice under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act;  the 
Commission considers it appropriate to take a lenient view and impose a smaller amount 
of penalty on the Acquirer under the provisions of Section 43A of the Act. Therefore, in 
exercise of the powers under Section 43A of the Act, a penalty of INR 1,00,00,000/- (INR 
One Crore only) is imposed on the Acquirer. The Acquirer shall pay the penalty within 60 
days from the date of receipt of this order.    
 
11. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Acquirer accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
 
