 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
                                                             Page 1 of 10 
 
   COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2014/05/175) 
 
10.02.2015 
 
Order u/s 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 (“Act”) in the notice given u/s 6 (2) of 
the Act given by SCM Soilfert Limited 
 
1. 
On 22nd May 2014, the Competition Commission of India (“Commission”) had received 
a notice under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, given by SCM Soilfert Limited 
(“SCM”) pursuant to a public announcement (“PA”) dated 23rd April 2014, issued in 
terms of the relevant provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares & Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 (“Takeover 
Regulations”) by SCM, as acquirer, and Deepak Fertilizers and Petrochemicals 
Corporation Limited (“DFPCL”), as person acting in concert, for acquisition of upto 26 
per cent of the equity share capital of Mangalore Fertilizers and Chemicals Limited 
(“MCFL”). It is noted that SCM is a wholly owned subsidiary of DFPCL. Hereinafter 
SCM and DFPCL are collectively referred to as the “Acquirers”.  
 
2. 
As stated in the notice, the proposed combination related to: (i) acquisition of 0.8 per 
cent equity share capital of MCFL through open market transactions (“Second 
Acquisition”); and (ii) acquisition of upto 26 per cent of the equity share capital of 
MCFL through an open offer as per the relevant provisions of the Takeover Regulations 
(“Open Offer”), by the Acquirers (“Proposed Combination”). Hereinafter, the 
Acquirers and MCFL are collectively referred to as the “Parties”.  
 
3. 
In this regard, it was observed by the Commission that the Acquirers also held 24.46 per 
cent equity share capital of MCFL, prior to giving notice under sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 of the Act, which was acquired by them on a single day, i.e., on 3rd July 2013, 
through a number of block and bulk deals on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) (“First 
Acquisition”). It was further observed that DFPCL in its press release dated 3rd July 
2013 filed with the BSE and the National Stock Exchange (NSE), had stated that “given 
DFPCL’s considerable strengths in the fertilizer business”, the purchase of 2,89,91,150 
equity shares amounting to 24.46 per cent of the share capital of MCFL was a “very 
strategic and a good fit with the company’s [i.e. DFPCL’s] business” and that, “DFPCL 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2014/05/175                                                                                                                                                Page 2 of 10 
 
looks forward to working closely with MCFL to enhance long term value for the 
shareholders of both companies.” Further, in this context, the Commission noted that 
this press release indicated that the First Acquisition was not made solely as an 
investment or in the ordinary course of business, and hence did not fall under Item 1 of 
Schedule I to the Competition Commission of India (Procedure in regard to the 
transaction of business relating to combinations) Regulations, 2011 (“Combination 
Regulations”). The Commission noted that the notice in terms of sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 of the Act was not filed for the First Acquisition, and as per Section 43A of 
the Act, failure to file notice in terms of Section 6(2) of the Act is liable for penalty.  
 
4. 
Further, it was observed that on 23rd April 2014, i.e., 29 days prior to filing of  the 
notice, under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, the Acquirers acquired shares 
constituting the Second Acquisition, stated to be part of the Proposed Combination, 
raising their stake in MCFL to approximately 25.3 per cent. In this regard, the 
Commission also observed that the Second Acquisition was not only a part of the 
Proposed Combination, but it also raised the stake of the Acquirers in MCFL beyond 25 
per cent and, therefore, the consummation of the same, without prior approval of the 
Commission, was considered to be in contravention of the provisions of sub-section (2) 
of Section 6 of the Act.  
 
5. 
In view of the foregoing and material placed on record, the Commission in its meeting 
held on 30th July 2014 directed that penalty proceedings under Section 43A of the Act 
may be initiated against the Acquirers. Accordingly, on 12th August 2014 show cause 
notices under Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India (General) 
Regulations, 2009 (“General Regulations”) read with Section 43A of the Act were 
issued to the Acquirers, requiring them to show cause, in writing, within 15 days of the 
receipt of the show-cause notice as to why penalty, in terms of Section 43A of the Act, 
should not be imposed on them.  
 
6. 
The Acquirers filed their reply on 1st September 2014 after seeking extension of time. In 
their reply to the show-cause notice, the Acquirers requested for an oral hearing. The 
Commission, therefore, heard the Acquirers in its meeting held on 30th October 2014. 
The Commission thereafter considered the submissions of the Acquirers and other 
material available on record in its meeting held on 10th February 2015.  

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2014/05/175                                                                                                                                                Page 3 of 10 
 
A. 
First Acquisition  
 
7. 
With regard to the First Acquisition, the Acquirers in their reply filed on 1st September, 
2014 contended that:  
 
7.1. 
The UB group, the promoters of MCFL, were in financial difficulty and hence 
various lenders started selling shares of various companies belonging to the UB 
group including those of MCFL, pledged to them by the UB group. This resulted in 
availability of a considerable number of MCFL’s shares in the open market, thus 
presenting an excellent opportunity for potential buyers, including the Acquirers, to 
acquire the shares of MCFL from the market. The Acquirers made the First 
Acquisition knowing fully well that it would not secure any right to influence or 
control the management or affairs of MCFL and that this acquisition would not 
benefit them in any way other than in terms of earning dividends. According to the 
Acquirers, they viewed the First Acquisition as strategic only to a limited extent. 
 
7.2. The Acquirers have stated that notwithstanding the statement of DFPCL to BSE, the 
Acquirers intention at the time of First Acquisition was to make an investment in 
MCFL. The Acquirers also stated that “while the possibility of a partnership with 
MCFL or its shareholders in the future had been considered, however there was no 
such intention of entering into a strategic partnership at the time of making the 
First Acquisition”.  
 
7.3. The Acquirers have stated further that at the time of making the First Acquisition, 
they had not entered into any strategic relationship with MCFL, despite operating in 
the same sector. They contended that even till date, there had been no co-operation 
between SCM and MCFL on the operation of the latter. The Acquirers only 
acquired a pure shareholding stake in MCFL, which did not confer on them control 
over MCFL from a corporate governance perspective, nor did they have the ability 
to govern or steer the business strategy and management of MCFL in any manner, 
whatsoever. The Acquirers further contended that if they had the intention of 
acquiring anything more than a financial investment in MCFL at the time of making 
the First Acquisition, they would have acquired such additional number of shares 
that would have triggered an open offer in terms of the Takeover Regulations to 
acquire additional 26 per cent shares in MCFL, and concurrently filed a 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2014/05/175                                                                                                                                                Page 4 of 10 
 
combination notification with the Commission under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of 
the Act. 
 
7.4. The Acquirers also contended that in certain other combination notices, the 
Commission had looked into the corporate governance rights and other joint 
initiatives contemplated by the parties to those combinations to determine that such 
combinations were “strategic” in nature.  
 
7.5. The Acquirers have stated that the First Acquisition was neither made with any 
intention to acquire control of MCFL, nor did the Acquirers envisage any 
involvement in the business and management of MCFL. Accordingly, the First 
Acquisition was “solely for investment” purpose, as given under Item 1 of Schedule 
I to the Combination Regulations.  
 
7.6. The Acquirers have contended that “Regulation 4 of the Combination Regulations 
[read with] Item 1 of Schedule I to the Combination Regulations exempts 
transactions involving an acquisition of shares or voting rights, if: (a) they are 
made solely as an investment; or (b) in the ordinary course of business; and (c) the 
acquisition does not entitle the acquirer to hold 25 per cent or more of the total 
shares or voting rights of the target enterprise; and (d) the transaction does not 
lead to an acquisition of control.” With regard to applicability of Item 1 of 
Schedule I to the Combination Regulations to the First Acquisition, the Acquirers 
contended that: (a) the First Acquisition did not entitle them to hold 25 per cent or 
more of the total shares/voting rights in MCFL; and (b) the First Acquisition did not 
lead to an acquisition of control and that it was merely a purchase of shares, and 
that no additional management rights, such as affirmative voting rights, were 
attached to the same.  
 
7.7. The Acquirers have further contended that they had exercised all due diligence to 
ascertain that the First Acquisition was not notifiable by virtue of the exemption 
available to them under Item 1 of Schedule I to the Combination Regulations and 
therefore, they did not notify the First Acquisition to the Commission, under the 
bona fide good faith belief that the First Acquisition had not triggered the 
requirement for notification under the relevant provisions of the Act. The intention 
to acquire 26.8 per cent stake subsequently cannot be attributed to paint the First 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2014/05/175                                                                                                                                                Page 5 of 10 
 
Acquisition as anything other than an acquisition of shares made solely as an 
investment. The Commission cannot impute the intention of SCM, developed and 
acted upon in 2014, to a transaction that took place at a different point of time, 
without any basis and contrary to its own legal standards.  
 
8. 
With respect to the submissions of the Acquirers, as discussed in paragraph 7 above, it is 
observed that: 
8.1. The Acquirers contended that the First Acquisition was not notifiable as it was 
exempted from notification under Item 1 of Schedule I read with Regulation 4 of 
the Combination Regulations. From a perusal of Item 1 of Schedule I to the 
Combination Regulations, it is amply clear that Item 1 read with Regulation 4 of the 
Combination Regulations deems acquisitions as normally not notifiable provided 
that the proposed acquisition of shares or voting rights does not entitle the acquirer 
to hold 25 per cent or more of total shares or voting rights, directly or indirectly, in 
the target enterprise and does not lead to a change of control and is made (i) solely 
as an investment, or (ii) is in the ordinary course of business. 
 
8.2. It is observed that the categories of combinations listed in Schedule I to the 
Combination Regulations must be interpreted in light of the Commission’s 
objectives (listed in Section 18 of the Act) and the intent of Schedule I (expressed in 
Regulation 4 of the Combination Regulations). This means that the categories of 
combinations listed in Schedule I as normally not notifiable ought not to include 
combinations which envisage or are likely to cause a change in control or are of the 
nature of strategic combinations including those between competing enterprises or 
enterprises active in vertical markets.   
 
8.3. In the instant case, the Acquirers have contended that the First Acquisition was 
made ‘solely as an investment’. In this regard, it is observed that the phrase ‘solely 
as an investment’ indicates ‘passive investment’ as against a ‘strategic investment’. 
Therefore, to qualify for Item 1 of Schedule I to the Combination Regulations, an 
acquisition must not have been made with an intention of participating in the 
formulation, determination or direction of the basic business decisions of the target 
or likely to cause or result in the same. Such participation by the acquirer in the 
business decisions of the target enterprise may be through various means including 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2014/05/175                                                                                                                                                Page 6 of 10 
 
by means of voting rights, agreements, representation on the board of the target or 
its affiliate companies, affirmative/veto rights in the target, etc.  
   
8.4. In the instant case, as stated above, it is noted that the First Acquisition was made 
by the Acquirers on a single day, i.e. on 3rd July 2013, through a number of block 
and bulk deals on the BSE. In this regard, it is noted that majority of the shares, 
amounting to 19.9 per cent of the shares of MCFL, were acquired through block 
deals. Further, as stated earlier, pursuant to First Acquisition, DFPCL had filed a 
press release with the BSE and the NSE.  In its press release dated 3rd July 2013, 
DFPCL had stated that “given DFPCL’s considerable strengths in the fertilizer 
business”, the purchase of 2,89,91,150 equity shares amounting to 24.46 per cent of 
the share capital of MCFL was a “very strategic and a good fit with the company’s 
[DFPCL’s] business”. The press release further stated that “DFPCL looks forward 
to working closely with MCFL to enhance long term value for the shareholders of 
both companies.”  
 
8.5. As stated above, the Acquirers in this regard, have contended that the First 
Acquisition would not help it benefit in any way other than in terms of earning 
dividends. It is observed that on a dividend yield basis, the acquisition of shares by 
the Acquirers in MCFL, if it was made only for the sake of earning dividends does 
not seem to be a sound investment, since as per the information available in public 
domain, for the financial year 2012-13, MCFL declared a dividend of only 12 per 
cent on face value of INR 10/- (i.e. INR 1.2 per share),1 which, on absolute terms 
comes to less than 2 per cent (approx.) as the average price per share acquired was 
more than INR 60.  
 
8.6. Further, it has been observed that as per the media reports, the Acquirers and the 
Zuari group2 have been in a takeover bid for MCFL since April 2013. In April 
2013, Zuari group purchased shares amounting to 16.43 per cent of MCFL’s share 
capital. Soon thereafter, the Acquirers made the First Acquisition. Further, the 
Acquirers have not provided any evidence to support their claim that there was no 
                                                          
1 Source http://www.moneycontrol.com/company-facts/mangalorechemicalsfertilisers/dividends/MCF01#MCF01. 
2 The Zuari group, now known as Adventz group, is headed by Mr. Saroj Poddar. It has interests in fertilizer sector 
through its various group companies including Paradeep Phosphates Ltd., Zuari Agro Chemicals Limited and Zuari 
Fertilisers Limited. 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2014/05/175                                                                                                                                                Page 7 of 10 
 
intention on their part to gain control over MCFL, either immediate or long term. 
Infact, the Acquirers themselves stated in the Reply that they had considered the 
possibility of a partnership with MCFL or its shareholders in the future. In this 
regard, it is noted that the Acquirers and MCFL are engaged in similar businesses.  
 
8.7. In view of the foregoing, it is evident that the First Acquisition was not made solely 
as investment or in ordinary course of business and should have been notified in 
terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act and therefore the Acquirers on 
account of their failure in this regard are considered to be liable for penalty under 
Section 43A of the Act.   
 
B. 
Second Acquisition 
 
9. 
The Acquirers in their reply dated 1st September 2014 have contended the following 
with respect to Second Acquisition: 
 
9.1. The Second Acquisition was duly notified to the Commission and has not yet been 
consummated. As per the Acquirers, the shares acquired, representing 0.8 per cent 
stake in MCFL, were kept in an escrow account maintained with their escrow agent 
and depository participant. The Acquirers also entered into an escrow agreement in 
this regard. The contentions of the Acquirers with respect to Second Acquisition 
may be summarised as follows.  
 
9.2. In order to ensure compliance with the requirement under Section 6(2A) of the Act 
but at the same time exercising their right to acquire such numbers of MCFL 
securities that would have helped them to make the Open Offer, the Acquirers 
resorted to the only means possible for ensuring that the Second Acquisition is not 
consummated. The Acquirers through SCM entered into an escrow agreement, 
whereby the shares acquired were credited into a specifically designated escrow 
account, which was to be maintained till approval of the acquisition by the 
Commission. The escrow agreement, inter alia, provides that SCM shall not 
exercise its legal and beneficial rights accruing upon the acquisition of shares by 
way of the Second Acquisition, till such time the shares are held in the escrow 
account.  
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2014/05/175                                                                                                                                                Page 8 of 10 
 
9.3. The definition of the term “share” under Section 2(v) of the Act refers to “shares in 
the share capital of a company carrying voting rights”. This means that so long as 
an acquirer of shares is unable to exercise its voting rights, the mere transfer of 
shares from one owner to another cannot be viewed as consummation of a 
transaction for acquisition of shares. 
 
9.4. The Second Acquisition was not consummated and it was to be consummated only 
upon fulfilment of all the conditions specified in the escrow agreement, including 
receipt of approval from the Commission. 
 
10. 
With respect to the submissions of the Acquirers, it is observed that: 
 
10.1. As already stated above, the Second Acquisition is part of the Proposed 
Combination.  The decision to keep the acquired shares in an escrow account 
maintained with the escrow agent and to not exercise any beneficial interest, 
including voting rights, with respect to the Second Acquisition was that of the 
Acquirers and not due to any statutory requirement in this regard. Further, the Act 
and Combination Regulations do not exempt a situation wherein a buyer acquires 
shares but decides not to exercise legal/beneficial rights in them, from the purview 
of the provisions of the Act in general, and Section 43A of the Act, in particular. 
Therefore, the Acquirers’ contention that the Second Acquisition was not 
consummated, as the shares were kept in an escrow account and they were not 
entitled to exercise any legal or beneficial rights over them till approvals of 
regulatory bodies are obtained, is not tenable under the law.  
 
10.2. With regard to the Acquirers’ claim that the shares acquired through the Second 
Acquisition were not “shares” within the meaning of the Act, it is observed that as 
per Section 2(v) of the Act, “shares” includes shares in the share capital of a 
company carrying voting rights3. In this regard, it is not disputed by the Acquirers 
that the shares constituting the Second Acquisition carry voting rights with them. 
Therefore, despite the subsequent decision of the Acquirers to not exercise voting 
                                                          
3 Section 2(v) of the Act reads as follows: 
“"shares" means shares in the share capital of a company carrying voting rights and includes—  
(i) any security which entitles the holder to receive shares with voting rights; 
(ii) stock except where a distinction between stock and share is expressed or implied.” 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2014/05/175                                                                                                                                                Page 9 of 10 
 
rights associated with such shares, the acquired shares being part of the Proposed 
Combination, were “shares” within the meaning of the Act. Further, as stated 
above, non- exercise of voting rights for a limited period of time with respect to the 
Second Acquisition is a self-imposed contractual obligation taken upon by the 
Acquirers.  
 
10.3. It is further observed that in terms of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 3 of the 
Takeover Regulations, it is mandatory to initiate an open offer if an acquirer has 
acquired 25 per cent or more stake in a listed company. However, there is nothing 
in the Takeover Regulations to suggest that an open offer cannot be initiated 
without breaching the 25 per cent threshold. Sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 3 of 
the Takeover Regulations reads as follows: 
 
“No acquirer shall acquire shares or voting rights in a target company which 
taken together with shares or voting rights, if any, held by him and by persons 
acting in concert with him in such target company, entitle them to exercise 
twenty-five per cent or more of the voting rights in such target company 
unless the acquirer makes a public announcement of an open offer for 
acquiring shares of such target company in accordance with these 
regulations.” 
 
10.4. The FAQs released by the Securities and Exchange Board of India provide 
clarification in this regard.4 As per the FAQs, “any person with or without holding 
any shares in a target company, can make an offer to acquire shares of a listed 
company subject to minimum offer size of 26 per cent”. The foregoing suggests that 
acquisition of 0.8 per cent (i.e. Second Acquisition) was not sine qua non for 
initiating the Open Offer.  
 
10.5. Further, the Acquirers have consummated the Second Acquisition twenty-nine (29) 
days prior to giving the notice in terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, 
thereby contravening the provisions of Section 6(2) of the Act.  
 
11. 
In terms of Section 43A of the Act, if any person or enterprise fails to give notice under 
sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, the Commission shall impose on such person or 
                                                          
4 Available at http://www.sebi.gov.in/cms/sebi_data/attachdocs/1399625542441.pdf.  

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2014/05/175                                                                                                                                                Page 10 of 10 
 
enterprise a penalty which may extend to one per cent of the total turnover or the assets, 
whichever is higher, of such a combination. However, considering the fact that the 
Acquirers disclosed the requisite information, and given the quantum of turnover of the 
Proposed Combination, the Commission considered it appropriate to impose a nominal 
penalty of INR Two Crores (INR 2,00,00,000 only) on the Acquirers. The Acquirers 
shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of this order. 
 
12. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Acquirers accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
