 
Page 1 of 57 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
17th December, 2021 
 
 
Proceedings against Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC under Sections 43A, 
44 and 45 of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
CORAM: 
 
Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta  
Chairperson 
 
Ms. Sangeeta Verma 
Member 
 
Mr. Bhagwant Singh Bishnoi 
Member 
 
Appearances 
 
 
For Amazon  
: 
Mr. Gopal Subramanium and Mr. Amit Sibal, Senior Advocates 
with Mr. Anand S. Pathak, Ms. Sreemoyee Deb, Ms. Anubhuti 
Mishra and Mr. Rajat Moudgil, Advocates alongwith Mr. Rakesh 
Bakshi, Mr. Ankur Sharma, Ms. Ujwala Uppaluri and Ms. Hina 
Doon, representatives of Amazon 
 
For FCPL 
: 
Mr. Harish Salve and Mr. Ramji Srinivasan, Senior Advocates with 
Mr. Raghav Shankar and Mr. Pranjit Bhattacharya, Advocates 
alongwith Mr. Sanjay Rathi, representative of FCPL 
 
For CAIT  
: 
Mr. Krishnan Venugopal and Mr. Saurabh Kirpal, Senior 
Advocates with Mr. Rajat Sehgal and Mr. Debayan Gangopadhyay, 
Advocates 
 
 

 
Page 2 of 57 
 
Order under Sections 43A, 44 And 45 of the Competition Act, 2002  
 
 
This order shall govern the disposal of the proceedings initiated against Amazon.com 
NV Investment Holdings LLC (Amazon), a direct subsidiary of Amazon.com Inc, under 
Sections 43A, 44 and 45 of the Competition Act, 2002 (Act), in relation to its acquisition of 
49% shareholding in Future Coupons Private Limited (FCPL), in pursuance of the show cause 
notice dated 4th June, 2021 (SCN), based on an application dated 25th March, 2021 
(Application) of FCPL. The said transaction was notified to the Competition Commission of 
India (Commission) by Amazon in Combination Registration No. C-2019/09/688. The said 
notification (Notice) was given by Amazon on 23rd September, 2019, pursuant to Section 6(2) 
of the Act, in Form I of Schedule II to the Competition Commission of India (Procedure in 
regard to the transaction of business relating to combinations) Regulations, 2011 
(Combination Regulations).     
 
A. Background  
 
2. 
In terms of ‘Part V: Description of the Combination’ of the aforesaid Notice, the 
Combination notified by Amazon comprised the following three (3) transactions1:  
 
2.1. 
Transaction I: The issue of Nine Million One Hundred and Eighty Three 
Thousand Seven Hundred and Fifty-Four (9,183,754) Class A voting equity 
shares of FCPL to Future Coupons Resources Private Limited (FCRPL). Prior 
to, and immediately post issuance of such equity shares, FCPL will be a wholly 
owned subsidiary of FCRPL; and 
 
2.2. 
Transaction II: The transfer of Thirteen Million Six Hundred and Sixty Six 
Thousand Two Hundred and Eighty Seven (13,666,287) shares of FRL held by 
FCRPL (representing Two decimal Five Two Percent (2.52%) of the issued, 
subscribed and paid-up equity share capital of Future Retail Limited (FRL), on 
a Fully Diluted Basis) to FCPL; and 
 
                                                          
1 Paras 15 and 16 at page 20 of the Notice 

 
Page 3 of 57 
 
2.3. 
Transaction III: The acquisition of the Subscription Shares representing Forty 
Nine percent (49%) of the total issued, subscribed and paid-up equity share 
capital of FCPL (on a Fully Diluted Basis) by Amazon, by way of a preferential 
allotment.  
 
3. 
It was stated in the Notice that obligation of Amazon to consummate Transaction III is 
subject to the completion of Transaction I and Transaction II. It was stated in the Notice 
that neither Transaction I nor Transaction II, on a standalone basis, is notifiable to the 
Commission, being contemplated between a parent and its subsidiary. It was further 
submitted that Transaction III, on a standalone basis, benefits from Target Exemption2 
because the value of assets and turnover of FCPL (as of 31st March, 2019) (which is the 
target for the purpose of Transaction III) is below the thresholds prescribed for such 
purpose. Without prejudice to the submissions on exemption, Amazon has further stated 
that if the Commission considers the Combination to be notifiable, Amazon is notifying 
the Combination in terms of Section 6(2) of the Act read with sub-regulation (4) of 
Regulation 9 of the Combination  Regulations3.   
    
4. 
It was also stated in the Notice that in relation to the Combination notified to the 
Commission, Amazon and the relevant entities and persons, belonging to the Future 
Group have entered into: (a) a share subscription agreement dated 22nd August, 2019 
(FCPL SSA) to set out the terms and conditions of subscription by Amazon and the 
issuance by FCPL of its shares to Amazon; and (b) a shareholders agreement dated 22nd 
August, 2019 to determine their respective rights and obligations as shareholders of 
FCPL (FCPL SHA)4. Amazon has stated in the Notice that the parties have only 
executed FCPL SSA and FCPL SHA in relation to the Combination5.  
 
                                                          
2 Notification No. S. O. 988(E) dated 27th March, 2017 of the Central Government 
 
3 Paras 20 and 21 at page 22 of the Notice 
 
4 Para 5 at page 5 of the Notice 
 
5 Para 34 of the Notice 
 

 
Page 4 of 57 
 
5. 
The Notice also mentioned that Amazon would acquire certain rights in terms of FCPL 
SHA to protect its investment in FCPL. These, inter alia, included the requirement of 
prior written consent of Amazon, for FCPL to decide on or implement any matter under 
the shareholders’ agreement dated 12th August, 2019 relating to FRL (FRL SHA), 
which requires the consent of FCPL. Footnote 3 of the Notice stated that, prior to the 
Combination, FCPL had acquired equity warrants of FRL, convertible into equity 
shares representing 7.30% of the share capital of FRL, within 18 months of the date of 
allotment (Warrants Transaction). The Warrants Transaction was notified to the 
Commission in Combination Reg. No. C-2019/03/653 and the same was approved vide 
order dated 15th April, 2019. Subsequently, the Promoters6, FCPL and FRL entered into 
FRL SHA, which sets forth inter se mutual rights and obligations of the parties as 
shareholders. It was specifically asserted in the same footnote that the execution of FRL 
SHA is pursuant to the Warrants Transaction. 
 
6. 
Reference was made in the Notice to certain existing and contemplated business 
arrangement/ agreements7 between FRL and Amazon Seller Services Private Limited 
(ASSPL) that govern the listing of the products of FRL, including third-party brands 
sold by FRL, on the Amazon India Marketplace8. The Notice also referred to an 
agreement dated 21st August, 2019 between Amazon Retail India Private Limited 
(ARIPL) and Future Consumer Limited (Future Consumer) for supply of, inter alia, 
food category products of Future Consumer to ARIPL. The Notice further referred to a 
memorandum of understanding dated 21st August, 2019 amongst Amazon Pay (India) 
Private Limited (APIPL) and FRL to offer the option of making payments through 
Amazon Pay semi-closed wallet to end consumers making purchases across retail 
outlets and websites operated by FRL and entities controlled or wholly owned by FRL. 
However, it was stated that all these agreements/arrangements are neither inter-
                                                          
6 The term ‘Promoters’ has been used in the Notice to mean those identified as promoters in Schedule I of the 
FCPL SSA and Schedule I of the FCPL SHA. These are Mr. Kishore Biyani, Ashni Kishore Biyani, Anil Biyani, 
Gopikishan Biyani, Laxminarayan Biyani, Rakesh Biyani, Sunil Biyani, Vijay Biyani, Vivek Biyani, FCRPL and 
Akar Estate and Finance Private Limited 
 
7 Business Solutions Agreement, Prime Now Program Terms, Prime Now FRL Amendment Agreement and 
Softlines FRL Agreement, referred to in paras 62 to 66 of the Notice 
 
8 Para 63 of the Notice 

 
Page 5 of 57 
 
connected with, nor part of, the Combination; or not related to the Combination in any 
manner whatsoever9. The agreement, arrangements and the memorandum of 
understanding referred above shall be collectively referred to as Commercial 
Arrangements or BCAs. In relation to the arrangements/agreement between ASSPL 
and FRL, it was stated that given the proximity of the execution of these 
agreements/arrangements, the parties, in good faith, have decided to give effect to the 
aforementioned agreements only after the receipt of the approval from the Commission 
in relation to the Combination10. 
 
7. 
On the rationale of the Combination, Amazon had stated in the Notice that it believes 
that FCPL holds potential for long term value creation and providing returns on its 
investment. It was further stated that Amazon decided to invest in FCPL with a view to 
strengthen and augment the business of FCPL (including the marketing and distribution 
of loyalty cards, corporate gift cards and reward cards to corporate customers) and 
unlock the value in the company11.  Amazon furnished a presentation titled Taj-
Coupons – Business Plan for Five Years in response to Item 8.8 of Form I, which 
require the notifying party to disclose documents, material (including reports, studies, 
plan, latest version of other documents, etc.) considered by and/or presented to the 
board of directors and/or key managerial person, in relation to the proposed 
combination.  
 
8. 
In terms of Regulation 14 of the Combination Regulations, letters dated 9th October, 
2019 and 24th October, 2019 were issued to Amazon to remove certain information gaps 
in the Notice. Amazon filed its responses to both these communications on 15th 
November, 2019. Some of the statements and clarifications of Amazon in the said 
submissions that are relevant to the instant proceedings are as under:   
 
                                                          
9 Paras 65, 96 and 100 of the Notice 
 
10 Para 65 of the Notice 
 
11 Para 30 of the Notice 

 
Page 6 of 57 
 
8.1. 
To a query posed by the Commission, on the claim that the investment by 
Amazon is strategic for it to become a part of the ecosystem,  it was submitted 
that the Combination will enable the parties to: (i) enhance existing portfolio 
of investments of Amazon in the payments landscape in India; (ii) provide an 
opportunity to FCPL to learn global trends in digital payments solutions and 
launch new and innovative product offerings; and (iii) offer innovative 
payments solutions to entities so as to enhance consumer convenience and user 
experience12; 
 
8.2. 
In response to a query on the rationale of Amazon to acquire rights over FRL 
and whether they are strategic or economic, Amazon submitted that its 
decision to invest in FCPL is, inter alia, based on the following considerations: 
(a) the unique business model of FCPL addresses an existing gap in the 
payments landscape in India, thereby making it a strong and sound investment 
opportunity for Amazon (which holds similar existing investments in entities 
engaged in business activities within the payments market in India); and (b) 
while FCPL has a strong growth potential, in the short term, to add credibility 
to its financial position, it has invested in and proposes to invest in FRL, which 
is a publicly traded company with strong financials and futuristic outlook13;  
 
8.3. 
Amazon had also stated that it does not have any direct or indirect shareholding 
in FRL. It would not acquire directly any rights in FRL. Amazon has only 
limited investor protection rights in FCPL with a view to protect the value of 
its investment in FCPL. These rights can be exercised only through FCPL and 
not directly by Amazon. The said rights have been derived from the rights 
granted to FCPL in terms of FRL SHA, which was negotiated by the 
                                                          
12 Response to query No. 2.13 (c) of the letter dated 9th October, 2019 available at pp. 34 and 35 of the submissions 
dated 15th November, 2019 of Amazon 
 
13 Response to query No. 2.5 of the letter dated 24th October, 2019 available at para 35 at page 35 of the 
submissions dated 15th November, 2019 of Amazon 
 

 
Page 7 of 57 
 
promoters, FRL and FCPL, independent of the investment by Amazon in 
FCPL and with a view to unlock value for FCPL14; and 
 
8.4. 
Amazon had further claimed that the Commercial Arrangements have not been 
entered into pursuant to the Combination and are not part of, or connected with, 
the Combination in any manner whatsoever15. It was further asserted that 
though being executed contemporaneously with FCPL SHA and FCPL SSA, 
these are in no way connected with the Combination and each such commercial 
agreement has been negotiated between its respective parties, in isolation, and 
independent 
of 
the 
Combination16. 
Furthermore, 
the 
Commercial 
Arrangements need not be examined under the framework for the regulation 
of combinations in terms of the Act and the Combination Regulations17. 
 
9. 
The Commission approved the Combination under Section 31(1) of the Act, on 28th 
November, 2019 (Approval Order), upon competition assessment of the overlapping 
business activities of Amazon, FCPL and their group entities and after arriving at the 
opinion that the Combination is not likely to cause any appreciable adverse effect on 
competition in India. 
 
B. Initiation of proceedings under Sections 43A, 44 and 45 of the Act 
 
10. 
FCPL filed the Application dated 25th March, 2021 stating that Amazon has initiated 
arbitration proceedings in relation to transfer of assets of FRL, a company in which 
FCPL holds 9.82% of the shareholding and there are related litigations pending before 
the constitutional courts. It has been alleged in the Application that Amazon has taken 
                                                          
14 Response to query No. 2.5 of the letter dated 24th October, 2019 available at para 37 at page 36 of the 
submissions dated 15th November, 2019 of Amazon 
 
15 Para 72 at page 45 of the submission dated 15th November, 2019 of Amazon, submitted in response to query 
2.21 of the letter dated 9th October, 2019 
 
16 Para 45 at page 32 of the submission dated 15th November, 2019 of Amazon, submitted in response to query 
2.12 of the letter dated 9th October, 2019 
 
17 Para 4 at page 3 of the submission dated 15th November, 2019 of Amazon, submitted in response to query 2.5 
of the letter dated 24th October, 2019 

 
Page 8 of 57 
 
completely contradictory stands in the arbitration proceedings and constitutional courts 
with respect to its investments in FCPL as compared to the representations and 
submissions made before the Commission.  Such contradictions were said to establish 
false representation and suppression of material facts before the Commission. 
 
11. 
The Commission, in its meeting held on 17th May, 2021, considered the Application 
and the averments and allegations made therein; and was of prima facie view that: (a) 
Amazon failed to identify and notify FRL SHA as a part of the Combination, in terms 
of Regulation 9(4) and Regulation 9(5) of the Combination Regulations; (b) Amazon 
had concealed its strategic interest over FRL; and (c) Amazon had made false and 
incorrect representations and concealed/suppressed material facts in contravention of 
the provisions of the Act. Accordingly, the Commission issued SCN under Sections 
43A, 44 and 45 of the Act to Amazon, on 4th June, 2021. The contents of the SCN are 
reproduced below for ease of reference:  
 
“In the instant matter, the Competition Commission of India 
(Commission) in its meeting held on 17th May 2021 considered the application 
dated 25th March 2021 of Future Coupons Private Limited (FCPL), seeking 
action against Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC (Amazon) under 
Sections 44 and 45 of the Competition Act and in terms of paragraph 16 of the 
order dated 28th November 2019 for the commission of alleged offences in 
Combination Registration No. C-2019/09/688) (Application). 
 
2. 
The Commission had approved acquisition of 49% equity shareholding 
of FCPL by Amazon in Combination Registration No. C-2019/09/688, vide 
Order dated 28th November 2019 issued under Section 31(1) of the Act.  
 
3. 
 As per the Order, the notice under Section 6(2) of the Act was filed 
pursuant to the execution of Share Subscription Agreement (FCPL SSA) and 
Shareholders Agreement (FCPL SHA) both dated 22nd August 2019, inter alia 
between Amazon, FCPL and the promoters of FCPL. Prior to FCPL SSA and 
FCPL SHA, FCPL entered into Shareholders Agreement on 12th August 2019 
with Future Retail Limited (FRL) and its promoters (FRL SHA). In terms of 
FRL SHA, FRL has to obtain the consent of promoters and FCPL for 
undertaking certain actions including the sale of retail assets. In terms of FCPL 
SHA, FCPL should take prior approval of Amazon before exercising any rights 
over FRL. 
 
4. 
Of late, disputes have arisen between Amazon and FCPL in relation to 
transfer of the assets of FRL, a company in which FCPL holds 9.82% of the 

 
Page 9 of 57 
 
shares. In relation to the above said dispute, Amazon had initiated arbitration 
and related litigation proceedings are also pending before the constitutional 
courts. In the present Application, FCPL has submitted that Amazon has taken 
a completely contradictory stand in the arbitration proceedings and 
constitutional courts with respect to its investments in FCPL as compared to the 
representation and submission before the Commission. Such contradictions are 
alleged to constitute false representation and a suppression of material facts. 
 
5. 
It is observed that some of the contradictory statements made by Amazon 
before CCI vis-à-vis before Arbitrator1, inter alia, are: 
 
A. Purpose of the combination  
 
A.1  Before CCI: It is submitted that the Investor's decision to invest in FCL 
[FCPL] is, inter alia, based on the following considerations: (a) the 
unique business model of FCL addresses an existing gap in the payments 
landscape in India, thereby making it a strong and sound investment 
opportunity for the Investor (who holds similar existing investments in 
entities engaged in business activities within the payments market in 
India); and (b) while FCL has a strong growth potential, in the short term, 
to add credibility to its financial position, it has invested in, and proposes 
to invest in FRL, which is a publicly traded company with strong 
financials and futuristic outlook. In other words, the Investor has 
considered all the above-mentioned factors in totality to arrive at the 
value of the proposed investment2.  
 
A.2  Before the Arbitrator and constitutional courts: The foundation of the 
relationship between the Claimant [Amazon] and the Promoters 
[Promoters of FCPL] was and remains the special and material rights 
available with FCPL with respect to FRL's business and its Retail 
Assets3…. The Claimant’s Interest with respect to FRL’s business and its 
Retail Asset is clear and unequivocal, and is made out from a bare reading 
of the agreements. FRL’s widespread network of retail stores across India 
represented a significant and irreplaceable strategic asset to the 
Claimant4...  
 
B. Independence or dependence of FRL SHA  
 
B.1  Before CCI: In response to a specific query on the rights of Amazon over 
FRL, Amazon had submitted as follows: “The Investor has limited 
investor protection rights in FCL with a view to protect the value of its 
investment in FCL. Further, while all decisions with respect to FCL's 
investment in FRL will be taken by the board of directors of FCL, 
however, with a view to protect the Investor's investment in FCL, certain 
rights have been granted to the Investor with respect to FCL's investment 
in FRL. It is important to highlight that these rights can be exercised only 

 
Page 10 of 57 
 
through FCL, and not directly by the Investor. Importantly, these rights 
have been derived from the rights granted to FCL in terms of the FRL 
SHA which was negotiated by the Promoters, FRL and FRL independent 
of the investment by the Investor in FCL, and with a view to unlock value 
for FCL. These rights have been granted to FCL with a view that FCL 
would exercise its rights as a shareholder of FRL to protect the interest 
of its· own shareholders, including the Investor5.”  
 
B.2  Before the Arbitrator and constitutional courts: Agreements – single 
integrated transaction: …FCPL SHA, SSA and FRL SHA are a single 
integrated transaction, FRL is expressly and impliedly bound by the 
FCPL SHA and SSA6…The interplay amongst the three agreements 
demonstrates that the unequivocal intention and interest of the Parties 
was to have one integrated understanding7….The FRL SHA, …, formed a 
core basis of the FCPL SHA and the two agreements constituted a single 
integrated bargain8.  
 
C. Amazon rights over FRL:  
 
C.1  Before CCI: The rights granted to Amazon in relation to FRL are with a 
view to protect its investment in FCPL. It would be important to note that 
not only are investor rights limited in scope, they also not extend to any 
subject matter that encroaches upon the commercial and operation 
decision making process of the FRL9…. The Investor's has no 
shareholding in FRL, and does not exercise any control or influence on 
it, therefore the Proposed Combination should not be subjected to a Form 
II filing requirement10.  
 
C.2  Before the Arbitration and constitutional courts: The special and material 
rights under the FCPL SHA including under the FRL SHA, were 
contractually agreed, promised and provided to the Claimant as a 
material consideration to its investment11….  
 
6. 
Upon considering the Application and the materials relied upon 
therewith, the Commission is of the prima facie view that: 
 
6.1. Amazon had represented before the Commission that FRL SHA was 
independent of the combination i.e. acquisition of 49% shareholding in 
FCPL by Amazon. However, it has now been brought to the notice of the 
Commission that Amazon has claimed before the arbitrator that FRL SHA 
is an integrated part of the combination. This factual aspect of the 
combination was not made known to the Commission. Rather, the 
submissions before the Commission presented a different factual scenario 
that the combination does not include FRL SHA; and the acquisition of 
49% shareholding in FCPL by Amazon and FRL SHA were independent 
of each other. Amazon ought to have identified and notified FRL SHA as 
a part of the combination, in terms of Regulation 9(4) and Regulation 9(5) 

 
Page 11 of 57 
 
of the Combination Regulations. It is further apparent that the 
representations and conduct of Amazon before the Commission amount 
to misrepresentation, making false statement and suppression or/and 
concealment of material facts in relation to the scope of the combination 
for which approval of the Commission was sought and taken.  
 
6.2. Amazon has concealed its strategic interest over FRL, which it now claims 
to be arising from the rights that were represented as mere investor 
protection. Such interest and the purpose of the combination (as has been 
claimed before the arbitrator) was not disclosed to the Commission 
despite specific requirements in Form I and the additional information 
sought from Amazon. Besides non-disclosure, false and incorrect 
representations have also been made in relation to the scope of the 
combination particularly the FRL SHA and the purpose of the 
combination.  
 
7. 
In view of the above, under Sections 43A, 44 and 45 of the Act read with 
Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 
2009 you are being issued this show cause notice to explain, in writing, as to 
why you shall not be found to have: (a) failed to give notice in respect of FRL 
SHA; and (b) furnished false and incorrect information; and concealed/ 
suppressed material facts, in contravention of the said provisions of the Act and 
in which case, why no action including penalty in terms of Sections 43A, 44 and 
45 of the Act, as the case may be, shall be imposed upon you. You shall submit 
your response within a time period of 15 days from the receipt of this notice.” 
______________________ 
1 
Application for Emergency Relief Under the Arbitration Rules of The Singapore 
International Arbitration Centre (Annexure 6 to the Application) 
2 
Para 35 at page 35 of the submission dated 15th November, 2019 of Amazon in Combination 
Registration No. C/2019/09/688 
3  Para 4.3(a) at page 8 (running page no. 527) of Annexure 6 to the Application 
4  Para 4.4(e) at page 15 (running page no. 534) of Annexure 6 to the Application 
5  Para 37 at page 36 of the submission dated 15th November, 2019 of Amazon in Combination 
Registration No. C/2019/09/688 
6  Para 7 at page 11 (running page no. 530) of Annexure 6 to the Application  
7  Para 8 at page 11 (running page no. 530) of Annexure 6 to the Application 
8  Para 1.3 at page 3 (running page no. 522) of Annexure 6 to the Application 
9  Page 40 of the submission dated 15th November, 2019 of Amazon in Combination 
Registration No. C/2019/09/688 
10  Point e at page 71 of the submission dated 15th November, 2019 of Amazon in Combination 
Registration No. C-2019/09/688 
11.  Para 1.3 at page 2 (running page no. 522) of Annexure 6 to the Application. 
 
12. 
After seeking extension of time, Amazon filed its response to the SCN on 28th July, 
2021 along with a request for oral hearing in the matter (Response to SCN). The 
Commission acceded to the request and heard Amazon at length on 22nd September, 
2021. Following the oral hearing, Amazon filed its written submissions as well on 5th 

 
Page 12 of 57 
 
October, 2021. The Commission considered the written submissions in its meeting held 
on 18th October, 2021 and decided to pass an appropriate order in due course. 
  
13. 
Subsequently, the Commission received a letter dated 20th October, 2021 from Amazon, 
inter alia, intimating that it has shared with Future Group, the Response to SCN and 
related correspondence with the Commission. Amazon vide another letter dated 29th 
October, 2021, furnished a copy of the partial award passed in the arbitration proceeding 
between Amazon and the Future groups. The Commission also received an application 
dated 7th November, 2021 from FCPL seeking access to the records of the case and 
provide a personal hearing in the matter. The Commission considered these submissions 
and applications in its meeting held on 15th November, 2021 and, inter alia, decided to 
hear both FCPL and Amazon on 4th January, 2022.  
 
C. Writ Petition No. 12889/2021 [CAIT v. Commission]  
 
14. 
In the meantime, Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) filed a Public Interest 
Litigation before the Hon’ble Delhi High Court, seeking expeditious disposal of the 
matter. Upon considering the Writ Petition on 16th November, 2021, the Hon’ble Delhi 
High Court disposed of the same, inter alia, with the following directions to the 
Commission:  
 
“…Looking to the controversy involved between the two Groups and 
the pending litigations in various Forums, as averred in the writ 
petition, we are not inclined to delve into the merits of the issues raised 
herein. Suffice would it be to state that the Show Cause Notice dated 
04.06.2021, issued by CCI, based on the letter dated 25.03.2021, 
addressed by FCPL to CCI, as averred and alleged in the writ petition, 
shall be considered by CCI, within a period of two weeks from today. 
Needless to state, decision shall be taken by CCI, after giving an 
opportunity of hearing to the stakeholders…” 
 
15. 
Having considered the aforesaid developments and in deference to and in compliance 
with the directions issued by the Hon’ble Delhi High Court, the Commission, in its 
meeting held on 19th November, 2021, revised the timelines issued on 15th November, 
2021. The revised timelines were: (a) FCPL to file its reply, if any, to the Response to 

 
Page 13 of 57 
 
SCN latest by 21st November, 2021, with an advance copy to Amazon under intimation 
to the Commission; (b) Amazon may thereafter file its rejoinder, if any, latest by 23rd 
November, 2021, with an advance copy to FCPL under intimation to the Commission; 
and (c) FCPL and Amazon may appear for an oral hearing in the matter on 24th 
November, 2021. It was further made clear that no request for extension or modification 
of timelines on the hearing schedule shall be entertained by the Commission, and in the 
event of any party not availing the opportunity provided, the Commission would 
proceed to consider the matter on the basis of material available on record, in 
accordance with law. CAIT was also given liberty to attend the hearing, if so desired. 
Amazon, CAIT and FCPL were informed of the above decision and directions of the 
Commission on 19th November, 2021 itself vide separate letters of even date.  
 
16. 
Subsequently, FCPL filed its response on 22nd November, 2021. Amazon did not file 
any rejoinder within the time prescribed but moved an application on 23rd November, 
2021 stating that it has preferred a Special Leave Petition (SLP) before the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court of India, challenging the Order of the Hon’ble Delhi High Court, based 
on which the Commission advanced the timelines and hearing schedule. In view of the 
SLP, Amazon sought deferment of the proceedings before the Commission until its SLP 
was heard by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. It was further stated that the SLP 
would be heard by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India on 25th November, 2021.  
 
17. 
On 24th November, 2021, the hearing before the Commission started in terms of the 
schedule fixed by the Commission, with the learned counsel appearing on behalf of 
Amazon pressing the application for deferment of the proceedings in light of the SLP, 
which was stated to come up for hearing on 25th November, 2021. On hearing the 
learned counsel, the Commission invited the attention of the learned counsel to the 
directions issued by the Hon’ble Delhi High Court and consequential timeline and 
hearing schedule fixed by the Commission vide its directions dated 19th November, 
2021. The Commission observed that, vide the said directions, it had made it clear that 
no request for extension or modification of timelines and the hearing schedule shall be 
entertained, and in the event that any party does not avail the opportunity provided, the 
Commission would proceed to consider the matter on the basis of material available on 

 
Page 14 of 57 
 
record and in accordance with law. Against this backdrop, the Commission heard the 
learned counsel(s) appearing on behalf of FCPL and CAIT at length. Thereafter, the 
Commission called upon the learned counsel appearing on behalf of Amazon to make 
its submissions on merits whereupon the learned counsel expressed its inability to argue 
the matter stating that making submissions may compromise the SLP and render it 
infructuous. The learned counsel also made a grievance that Amazon did not get 
sufficient time to file its rejoinder. Accordingly, despite the grant of opportunity, the 
learned counsel appearing on behalf of Amazon did not make oral submissions. Thus, 
having heard the counsel(s), the Commission decided to pass an appropriate order in 
due course.  
 
D. Special Leave Petition (Civil) Diary No. 28613/2021 
 
18. 
Further to the above developments, the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India considered the 
SLP filed by Amazon on 29th November, 2021 and disposed of the same with the 
following direction:  
 
“Having heard…, and carefully perusing the material available on record, we are 
not inclined to interfere with the impugned Order passed by the High Court of Delhi 
at New Delhi ....Taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of this case, 
two more weeks’ time from today is granted to the petitioner in the matter, which 
would be over and above the time already granted by the High Court in this behalf. 
The petitioner would be at liberty to raise all the objections before the Competition 
Commission of India. The said Commission would consider all the objections on its 
own merits and in accordance with law…” 
 
19. 
Pursuant to the aforesaid order of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, Amazon filed a 
letter dated 30th November, 2021 before the Commission, stating therein that it will file 
its response to the reply filed by FCPL on or before 9th December, 2021. Amazon also 
requested vide the said letter for an oral hearing at any suitable time after filing of the 
response. FCPL also filed a letter dated 30th November, 2021 praying that the 
Commission be pleased to pass necessary orders on the SCN before 13th December, 
2021. CAIT also filed a letter on 29th November, 2021 stating therein that the 
Commission is obligated to pass an order on the SCN on or before 13th December, 2021. 
 

 
Page 15 of 57 
 
20. 
In deference to and in compliance with the directions issued by the Hon’ble Supreme 
Court of India as also keeping in view the original directions issued by the Hon’ble 
High Court of Delhi in W. P. No. 12889/2021 on 16th November, 2021 whereby the 
Commission was directed to consider the SCN dated 4th June, 2021, based on the letter 
dated 25th March, 2021 of FCPL, within a period of two weeks from the date of the said 
order i.e. 16th November, 2021, the Commission allowed Amazon to make its oral 
submissions before the Commission  on 13th December, 2021. FCPL and CAIT were 
allowed to remain present during the said hearing, if so desired. Amazon was directed 
to share a copy of its response/rejoinder with FCPL under intimation to the 
Commission. 
 
21. 
Amazon submitted its response to the submissions of FCPL on 12th December, 2021. 
The Commission heard the learned counsel(s) representing Amazon at length on 13th 
December, 2021. The Commission also heard the learned counsel(s) appearing on 
behalf of FCPL and CAIT in response to the submissions made on behalf of Amazon. 
The Commission allowed Amazon and CAIT to submit brief submissions as requested 
by them, by the end of the day.    
 
22. 
Before delving into the merits of the case, the Commission notes that Amazon has raised 
certain preliminary objections in its Response to SCN. These are primarily contentions 
on the commonality of the subject matter before the arbitrators and the instant 
proceedings; material adduced by FCPL before the Commission being pleadings before 
the arbitrators are disclosures made in contravention of the provisions of Section 42A 
of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996; and the Application is an attempt by 
FCPL to stifle the ongoing arbitration proceedings between the parties.  
 
23. 
At the outset, the Commission notes that, while some of the factual foundations of the 
Combination may be relevant in both the arbitration and the instant proceedings, the 
legal issues for determination in the arbitration proceedings and the instant proceedings 
for violations of the provisions of the Act are mutually independent. The Commission 
does not see any bar on the instant proceedings only on account of the pendency of the 
arbitration between the parties. Even though the instant inquiry is triggered by the 

 
Page 16 of 57 
 
Application filed by FCPL, the proceedings pursuant to SCN are essentially 
inquisitorial in nature, and the subject matter relates to the conduct of Amazon as the 
notifying party in Combination Registration No. C-2019/09/688, in terms of Regulation 
9(1) of the Combination Regulations. Needless to say, the Commission is not concerned 
with the disputes between Amazon and Future groups. Further, if the parties were to 
allege violation of the provisions of any law other than the Act, they are free to pursue 
legal recourse before the appropriate forum. Thus, the preliminary objections raised by 
Amazon sans merit and are accordingly, dismissed. 
 
24. 
Now coming to the merits of the case, the Commission notes that the allegations in the 
SCN concern the factual position and material particulars relating to (a) the purpose of 
the Combination; (b) independence or dependence of FRL SHA; and (c) the rights of 
Amazon over FRL pursuant to the Combination. The SCN notes that FRL SHA was 
not notified to the Commission despite being an interconnected part of the Combination 
and Amazon concealed its strategic interests over FRL, which were rather represented 
in the Notice as mere investor protection.  
 
25. 
The submissions of Amazon in response to SCN, are summarised as under: 
 
25.1. Amazon did not deny the factual aspects of the SCN but submitted that the 
context of the submissions before the Commission and the Arbitral Tribunal 
were different. Amazon contended that all material particulars relating to the 
Combination and those relevant for assessment by the Commission were 
disclosed in the Notice and subsequent submissions dated 15th November, 2019. 
These material particulars related to the Combination are: (a) a copy of FRL 
SHA; (b) fact that the value of assets and turnover of FRL was taken into 
consideration for the purpose of computing the thresholds under Section 5 of 
the Act;  (c) identification of FRL, as a party, ultimate beneficiary of the 
Combination and a material entity in FCPL SHA and FCPL SSA; (d) fact that 
investment of FCPL in FRL was a key consideration for Amazon to pursue the 
investment and that the retail assets of FRL were also an integral part of its 

 
Page 17 of 57 
 
decision to pursue the Combination; (e) details of the protective rights acquired 
by Amazon in relation to  FRL; and (f) no control is acquired over FRL.  
 
25.2. The material particulars that are relevant for the purpose of assessment of the 
Combination and disclosed by Amazon in the Notice and subsequent 
submissions were stated to be: (a) information rights over business activities of 
FRL; (b) all commercial agreements involving FRL were given effect to only 
after the approval of the Commission; and (c) the details required as per Form I 
regarding relevant market and competition assessment, based on the business 
activities of the parties and affiliates. It was also contended that all these 
disclosures were mentioned in the Approval Order and the competition 
assessment therein was necessarily inclusive of the business activities of FRL. 
Attention of the Commission was specifically drawn to paragraph 13 of the 
Approval Order, wherein the Commission noted that presence of FRL and the 
affiliates of the Acquirer is not such as to raise any competition concern. Having 
disclosed all material particulars relating to the Combination and competition 
assessment thereof, Amazon maintained that it cannot be held guilty of 
contraventions of the provisions of Sections 43A, 44 or 45 of the Act.  
 
26. 
FCPL, on the other hand, primarily relied upon the emails and notes of Amazon Group 
(hereinafter, Amazon), to contend that Amazon all along intended the FRL SHA and 
the BCAs to be part of the Combination but did not notify the same to avoid regulatory 
scrutiny from statutory authorities including the Commission. These documents were 
furnished to the Commission vide submissions dated 22nd November, 2021 of FCPL 
and are stated to be internal documents of Amazon, contemporaneous and prior to the 
Combination, disclosed in the arbitration proceedings, and FCPL was not aware of their 
existence at the time of filing the Application. It was contended that these documents 
are contrary to and at variance to the statements and disclosures of Amazon in the 
Notice and subsequent submissions dated 15th November, 2019. It is further contended 
that Amazon enjoys control over FRL and, given the extent of contraventions, the 
Approval Order should be revoked in terms of paragraph 16 therein.  

 
Page 18 of 57 
 
 
 
27. 
The learned counsel appearing on behalf of CAIT submitted that it is representing the 
interests of traders and retailers. It was argued that the conduct of Amazon is in violation 
of the laws relating to foreign investments in India and the Combination raises 
competition concerns as it is likely to create entry barriers in the retail market in India. 
The learned counsel emphasised that Amazon is guilty of suppressio veri and suggestio 
falsi and has thereby violated the provisions of the Act.  
 
28. 
The learned counsel appearing on behalf of Amazon made the following submissions 
in response to the arguments and submission of FCPL and CAIT:  
 
28.1. Mala fide nature of the actions and representations made by Future Group: 
Amazon has contended that the transaction between Future Group and Mukesh 
Dhirubhai Ambani Group (MDAG) constituted wilful and material breach of 
the agreements entered between Future Group and Amazon (Agreements). 
Amazon has various contractual rights under the Agreements, and FCPL’s 
complaint is a mala fide attempt to violate the rights of Amazon. FCPL and FRL 
vetted all submissions made by Amazon to the Commission and therefore were 
equally responsible for the filings before the Commission. FCPL has 
approached the Commission with unclean hands and the mala fide nature of 
FCPL’s conduct is also evident from its inconsistent stand before the 
Commission and the Arbitral Tribunal, regarding Amazon’s alleged acquisition 
of control over FRL. 
 
28.2. CAIT is a stranger to the SCN proceedings and cannot be allowed to participate 
as a stakeholder: CAIT has no locus to intervene in the SCN Proceedings in 
terms of the Act and the Combination Regulations. The representations made 
by CAIT before the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi and the Commission are yet 
another instance of forum shopping. Such forum shopping which seeks to 
undermine the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court ought not to be 
entertained.  

 
Page 19 of 57 
 
 
28.3. There is no power to revoke an approval or direct notification of a consummated 
transaction: Paragraph 16 of the Approval Order does not grant the power to 
revoke the Approval Order. Further, the Commission’s power to approve the 
combination does not include the power to revoke the approval. Additionally, 
the present proceedings are governed by Section 44 of the Act, and no recourse 
can be had to Section 45 of the Act, which is a general provision.  In any event, 
Section 45 of the Act does not empower the Commission to revoke Approvals. 
The scheme of the Act does not contemplate the enforcement of a revocation 
order, and the Commission’s own guidance notes to the notification in Form I 
do not recognise power of revocation.  
 
28.4. Public policy mandates that the Commission should not exercise any power of 
revocation in respect of transactions which were approved more than two years 
ago: Public policy dictates that the Commission should not become a forum for 
the resolution of contractual disputes between private parties. 
 
28.5. Section 44 and Section 45 would apply only when there is “material” 
suppression or omission: The existence of jurisdictional facts are condition 
precedent for exercise of power by a statutory authority such as the 
Commission. It was submitted that the Commission may exercise the 
jurisdiction conferred under Section 44 and Section 45 of the Act only in cases 
where there is a suppression, omission or failure to furnish information, which 
would be “material” to the Commission’s assessment of the proposed 
combination (i.e., whether a notified combination causes or is likely to cause 
appreciable adverse effect on competition). There was no concealment of any 
material information in the present case. Review of a notified combination 
entails an ex ante assessment of the combination in terms of Section 20(4) of 
the Act, and all information that was “material” to such assessment was 
disclosed in the Notification. Also, all information material to the Commission’s 
assessment of whether the notified Combination was likely to cause any 

 
Page 20 of 57 
 
appreciate adverse effect on competition was disclosed by Amazon in the 
Notification. 
 
28.6. On the merits of FCPL’s submissions, Amazon contended as follows:  
 
28.6.1. 
Regarding the allegation that FRL SHA was not notified as part of the 
Combination, Amazon submitted that FRL SHA does not constitute a 
“combination” insofar as Amazon is concerned. Further, FRL SHA 
was duly disclosed as forming the background to Transaction III. All 
relevant information pertaining to FRL that were material to the 
Commission’s assessment were disclosed. It was submitted that 
Amazon had made submissions in relation to the potential synergies 
arising out of FCPL’s business, the underlying investments held by 
FCPL in FRL and FRL’s business itself.  
 
28.6.2. 
Regarding the allegation of non-disclosure of non-compete 
obligations in the Notification, it was submitted that there are no non-
compete clauses either in FCPL SHA or FCPL SSA or FRL SHA. 
Both SHAs provide transfer restrictions, which do not constitute a 
non-compete obligation.  
 
28.6.3. 
Regarding the internal communications, it was submitted that 
commercial arrangements with Future Group were negotiated since 
January, 2018 and Amazon explored multiple investment structures. 
Some of these documents/emails pertain to the period when the parties 
were still in negotiations. Further, Amazon has made disclosures about 
BCAs and importance of FRL’s Retail Assets.  
 
28.6.4. 
Regarding the allegation that Amazon exercises control over FRL, it 
was submitted that Amazon does not exercise any control over the 
day-to-day operational matters of FRL; it does not exercise any 
influence over the business operations of the market conduct of FRL 

 
Page 21 of 57 
 
and it is FCPL’s own submission that expressly clarified that Amazon 
was never intended to exercise any form of control over FRL.  
 
28.6.5. 
Regarding the submission that the Approval Order passed by the 
Commission must be revoked, it was pointed out that paragraph 16 of 
the Approval Order does not grant the Commission power to revoke 
the Approval Order. There is no power of revocation envisaged under 
the scheme of the Act. It was submitted that there are no incorrect 
statements made in the Notification, which would warrant the 
revocation of the Approval Order. 
 
29. 
Following the above submissions of Amazon, the learned counsel appearing for FCPL 
contended that Amazon is contemplating a wrong threshold to determine the 
contraventions under Section 44 and Section 45 of the Act. The Commission deals with 
complicated matters of economics in review of combinations and thus, the material 
placed before it should be with integrity. Any deception in the Notice filed by Amazon 
vitiates the entire process, and Section 44 and Section 45 are penal provisions in case 
of contraventions. It was vehemently submitted that the Combination notified in the 
matter was not the actual combination contemplated by Amazon with FRL. Further, the 
material before the Commission in the instant proceeding was not placed before the 
Commission at the time of assessment of the Combination in Combination Registration 
No. C-2019/09/688. 
 
30. 
The learned counsel appearing on behalf of CAIT submitted that FRL SHA and the 
commercial agreements were not even referred in the Approval Order as they were not 
notified to the Commission. Such conduct, suppressions and misrepresentations by 
Amazon had reduced the intensity of competition assessment in the matter. 
Accordingly, it was prayed that, apart from imposing monetary penalty, the 
Commission should revoke the approval granted to Amazon. 
 
31. 
Having considered the written and oral submissions of Amazon, FCPL and CAIT and 
other material available on record, the Commission proceeds to determine whether the 

 
Page 22 of 57 
 
alleged conduct(s) of Amazon is in contravention of the provisions of Sections 43A, 44 
and 45 of the Act. The primary issue that arises for determination in the instant matter 
is whether Amazon, the notifying party in Combination Registration No. C-
2019/09/688, has made misrepresentation, false statement or suppression/concealment 
of material facts in relation to the scope and purpose of the Combination; and failed to 
identify and notify FRL SHA as an inter-connected part of the Combination, in terms 
of Regulations 9(4) and 9(5) of the Combination Regulations. Such determination 
would primarily entail ascertaining whether the material brought before the 
Commission through the present proceedings demonstrate a different scope and purpose 
of the Combination than what was projected in the Notice and subsequent submissions 
of Amazon in Combination Registration No. C-2019/09/688. 
 
32. 
From the material on record, the Commission notes the contract summary and internal 
e-mail dated 19th July, 2019 of Amazon Group with the subject ‘Request for 
APPROVAL for Project Taj [Future]…’, which elaborate the business summary and 
summary of key terms of the Combination (Approval Request). This e-mail was sent 
by Mr. Rakesh Bakshi to Mr. Jeff Bezos, seeking approval to sign definitive documents 
in relation to the Combination. The relevant extracts of these are reproduced as under:   
“Hi …, 
 
We are in the final stages of negotiating definitive investment documents for 
an INR14B (~$204MM at current exchange rates) investment to acquire a 
49% stake in Future Coupons Limited (“Future Coupons”). Future Coupons 
will hold ~8-10% of Future Retail Limited, India’s second largest offline 
multi-category retailer, and we are requesting your approval to sign the 
definitive investment documents and close the transaction. Attached for your 
review (and reprinted below) is a legal contract summary. Please respond at 
your earliest convenience. … have all reviewed and are supportive of the 
investment. In addition, Legal, Tax, and Accounting have signedoff. 
 
Thank you. 
Regards, 
… 
Future Retail Limited Investment 
    July 18, 2019 
 
Business Summary 

 
Page 23 of 57 
 
 
Founded in 1987, Future Retail Limited (“Future Retail”) is India’s second 
largest offline multicategory retailer and is headquartered in Mumbai. Future 
Retail is listed on Indian stock exchanges and has a market capitalization of 
~$3.4B. Future Retail is the flagship company of the Future Group, a large 
Indian offline retail conglomerate. 
 
Future Retail has a pan-India presence, with a store network spanning 
~16MM square feet across ~1K branded stores (with a variety of formats such 
as convenience stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets, and department stores) 
and over 33K employees. Future Retail’s 340 hypermarkets cover ~70% of 
Amazon India’s customer base (within a drive of less than 2 hours). As of 
March 31, 2019, Future Retail generated ~$3B in revenues with an EBITDA 
margin of 5%. Future Retail and its affiliates also have a strong portfolio of 
private label selection in grocery (450+ SKUs across packaged foods, home, 
and personal care) and value-fashion (27 brands with a median average 
selling price of ~$9.40, and contributing to 80% of Future Retail’s gross 
merchandize sales for fashion).  
 
Future Retail is currently listed as a 3P seller on Amazon.in. Concurrent with 
the investment, we will enter into commercial agreements with Future Retail 
and certain other members of the Future Group under which: (i) Future Retail 
will list the selection available in its hypermarkets on Amazon.in at 
significantly improved terms (representing an increase of 850 basis points). 
This will enable Amazon India to expand coverage (across ~15K SKUs) of our 
ultra-fast delivery service in the top four cities in India and launch the ultra-
fast delivery service in the next 20 cities in India. Future Retail will not list its 
products on any other third party online website; (ii) Amazon Pay will be the 
exclusive third party wallet accepted in Future Retail’s stores and website; 
(iii) one of Future Retail’s affiliates, Future Consumer Limited, which owns 
and produces the Future Group’s private label grocery and general 
merchandise (such as cooking needs, storage needs, and utensils) portfolio, 
will supply these products to our food retail entity in India and our affiliated 
sellers on a B2B basis at significantly improved margins, and will agree to not 
supply these products to certain named competitors; and (iv) one of Future 
Retail’s affiliates, Future Lifestyle Fashions Limited (FLFL), will list brands 
owned by (or exclusively licensed to) FLFL in fashion on Amazon.in and will 
not list these fashion products on any other third party online websites.  
 
Lastly, we have negotiated a call option over the shares held by Future Retail’s 
promoters (who are also its largest shareholder), leaving us well-positioned 
to become the single largest shareholder of Future Retail (which would be very 
difficult through market purchases alone), if Indian foreign investment laws 
change in the future. 
 
 
 

 
Page 24 of 57 
 
Summary of Key Terms 
 
Structure: 
Due to the recent PN2 restrictions under Indian foreign investment laws, we 
will use a “twin-entity investment” structure to invest in Future Retail. 
Amazon will acquire 49% of Future Coupons, with the other 51% being owned 
by the promoters of Future Coupons (who are also promoters and single 
largest shareholders of Future Retail, the “Promoters”). Our shareholding in 
Future Coupons will be divided into voting equity share capital (25.1%), and 
non-voting equity share capital (23.9%), though we will have all the statutory 
rights available to a 49% shareholder. You may recall this structure and 
voting/non-voting split is also how we resolved PN2 for Project Brigade, our 
acquisition of a 49% interest in More Retail Limited (which is also engaged in 
retail of food and grocery in India). 
 
Future Coupons has acquired warrants representing ~7% of Future Retail 
(which warrants will convert into equity shares of Future Retail by October, 
2020). Further, Future Coupons will, prior to our investment, acquire an 
additional 1-3% equity shares of Future Retail (from the Promoters) such that 
prior to our investment, Future Coupons will own 8-10% of Future Retail. The 
number of equity shares of Future Retail to be held by Future Coupons has 
been calculated such that Amazon can indirectly hold the same number of 
shares of Future Retail that Amazon would have acquired if Amazon had 
directly invested INR14B in Future Retail at a price per share representing a 
25% premium on the minimum regulatory price prescribed for issuance of 
fresh shares of a listed entity under Indian law. In summary, Amazon is paying 
a premium of 25% (INR2.8B i.e ~$41MM at current exchange rates) over the 
regulatory price of the securities of Future Retail. This premium is being paid 
on account of the strategic rights and Call Option being provided to Amazon. 
Due to the Call Option and the strategic rights being at or above the prevailing 
market price, we currently estimate a ~$41MM P&L loss at sign (see details 
in the accounting treatment section below).  
 
Future Coupons was founded in 2008 and is engaged in the business of 
marketing and distribution of gift cards, loyalty cards, and other rewards 
programmes to corporate customers…”   
 
[Emphasis Supplied] 
 
33. 
Prior to the Approval Request, a situation update relating to the negotiation between the 
parties, seen as a part of another internal e-mail dated 10th July, 2018 of Amazon 
(Situation Update), elaborates on the background and purpose with which the 

 
Page 25 of 57 
 
Combination was contemplated between Amazon and Future Group. The relevant 
extract of the Situation Update is reproduced below:  
“10 July 2018 
 
Project Taj – Investment in National Multi-category Copperfield-seller 
 
Situation Update: 
 
The Taj group is India’s largest and multi-category offline retailer with 280 
multi-category stores, 620 grocery stores and 400 fashion only stores in top 50 
cities. The Taj group’s retail company, Taj Retail Limited (TRL) is publicly 
traded and has a market cap of $4.1B1 (July 9, 2018). Amazon’s India team 
likes Taj’s management team, store footprint, private label capability and 
believe they are one of the key players in the offline retail market to partner 
with. For an overview of relevant Taj group businesses, please refer to 
Annexure I. 
 
On 24 May, 2018, we received an approval from … to indicate interest (to Taj’s 
founder) to invest between $400 to $500 MM for upto 9.99% stake in TRL. In 
India, our ability to pursue investments / acquisitions of retailers is limited 
because laws restrict foreign investment in multi-brand retail assets (i.e., 
retailers selling multiple brands across categories under one roof). However, 
because TRL is a listed company, Alpha [Amazon] can acquire upto 9.99% of 
TRL directly (as a foreign portfolio investor). Eventual ownership will vary 
upon final pricing discussions.  
 
Upon receiving … approval, we engaged into deeper discussion with Taj on 
pricing / valuation, investment structure and strategic rights that we could get 
through an investment. As of last week, we have aligned with Taj on an 
investment framework to proceed further with this transaction. A Business 
Commercial Framework (BCF) to build and accelerate Ultra-Fast Delivery 
across top-20 cities in India leveraging Taj’s national stores footprint as a 
Copperfield seller, is agreed in principle with Taj team; please refer to 
Annexure II for investment rationale and more details of the BCF. This note 
provides background on the transaction, details of the investment framework 
and FAQs addressing the key points to consider before going back to Taj team 
with our offer…  
 
FAQs 
 
1. What are the strategic objectives that we want to achieve through Taj? 
 
We are looking to secure the following business objectives through this 
transaction: 
 

 
Page 26 of 57 
 
a.  Ability to become the single largest shareholder in India’s largest offline 
retailer (TRL) when foreign direct investment (FDI) opens up in this sector. 
b.  Precluding / blocking competitive interest in TRL, and preventing an IC 
from acquiring TRL. 
c.  Together with the investment, Alpha will enter into a commercial 
agreement to utilize TRL’s pan-India store infrastructure to bolster Alpha’s 
ultra-fast delivery program, exclusively carry private label portfolio in 
grocery and value fashion, and drive higher fees for Alpha. 
 
2. What is our business rationale and BCF for Taj? 
 
We believe that a two-hour delivery promise, for 15,000 SKUs across top-20 
cities will be a unique differentiating capability. It will allow us to cover 85% 
of our Prime members and 63% of all customers. To serve this customer base, 
we believe working closely with a large Copperfield seller is important. We 
believe that Taj is one of two key pan-India retailers worth pursuing (the other 
being Brigade). Taj has a strong portfolio of private label selection in grocery 
(450+SKUs, across packaged foods, home and personal care) and value-
fashion (27 brands with a median ASP of $9.2 (INR 600), contributing to 80% 
of their GMS for fashion). Against our investment of $400 to 600MM in TRL, 
we estimate the discounted cash flow value of BCF over 10 years of $702MM 
(INR 45.6B); please refer to Annexure II for investment rationale and more 
details of the BCF. When foreign investment laws are relaxed and higher stake 
or acquisition of multi-brand retail assets is permitted beyond today’s 
possibilities, we would have a foot-in-the-door to acquire more in this strategic 
asset, should we so desire at the time. For further details please refer to 
Annexure II – BCF Strategic Value. Importantly, our investment in TRL will be 
liquid given that TRL is publicly traded in the Indian stock market, and 
therefore, we can recover our investment in case TRL fails to deliver. 
 
3. What is the proposed transaction? 
 
An overseas Amazon entity, registered as a ‘foreign portfolio investor’, will 
acquire 9.99% (through a fresh issuance of shares) of TRL. Simultaneous with 
the investment, Alpha India will enter into a commercial agreement (BCF) with 
TRL, and Taj Consumer Limited (TCL), and Taj Lifestyle Fashion Limited 
(TLFL) in relation to the matters listed in FAQ 2… 
 
6. If we were to execute both Taj and Brigade, why is a Call Option important 
in both situations? 
 
Our ICs (BB, FK, Paytm Mall) are aggressive on grocery, general merchandise 
and general electronics categories. Specifically in grocery and fresh categories, 
we are lagging behind BB and FK is also nipping at our heels. Walmart’s 
expertise in offline retail will likely spur FK and Alibaba’s investment and 
technology will continue to push BB ahead.  
 

 
Page 27 of 57 
 
Given the above, we need to build deep strategic alignments with offline grocery 
retailers to leverage their execution capabilities to power our fresh and grocery 
offering. India has 6 offline retailers (Taj, Brigade, Reliance Retail, D-Mart, 
Spencers and Nature’s Basket). With a process of elimination on parameters of 
asset quality, partner quality and availability, only two i.e. Taj and Brigade 
remain. If we are able to close our investment in Brigade, we would secure a 
high quality asset, however it will lack the scale and national footprint that Taj 
offers. Further, Brigade is our bet to own a high quality grocery operation. Taj, 
on the other hand, is an investment in a multicategory Copperfield seller with a 
larger pan-India footprint. Getting a Call option in both assets allows us to 
acquire and raise our bet, at our discretion, in the player we feel best meets our 
objectives after having tested close operational alignment with both in 3-7 years 
following investment; when regulations permit. 
 
7. If we were to execute both Taj and Brigade, how would we decide which 
Call Option to exercise then? 
 
Keeping aside our tenets of Financial Discipline for the moment; holding a Call 
Option in both assets keeps our options open and it also serves as an incentive 
/ deterrent to Brigade / Taj. If Brigade executes flawlessly, we can exercise our 
Call Option (when legally permissible) and make Brigade a spearhead of our 
1P grocery operations. If Brigade doesn’t execute to our bar, then we can 
choose to pull back from further investments in Brigade and double down on 
our investments in Taj, provided that it meets our expectations. If Taj executes 
well both on BCF as well as an independent retail asset, when regulations relax, 
we will have the ability to increase our stake in India’s largest offline retailer 
and keep our competition. If Taj doesn’t execute well, we can exit our ownership 
in listed stock. Holding Call Options in both assets, thus allows us to control 
our destiny in a thoughtful manner in the future… 
 
Annexure II - Strategic value accruing to Amazon as a result of the Business 
Commercial Framework (BCF)  
 
We started working with Taj, couple of years ago, as a Copperfield seller in 
three cities (across 23 stores) to learn and develop the ultrafast delivery model 
in India. In April-2018, we served about 2000 orders per day with an AOV of 
$12.3 (INR 802) and UPO of 9.3. We earn merchant fee of 5.4% and have a 
CPLF of -$4.55 (-INR 296) per order (55.5%). If we improve the order 
economics, we believe Taj’s footprint of physical infrastructure can offer a 
unique 2-hour-delivery service across multiple categories in top-20 cities. 
Therefore, we constructed a BCF to estimate value creation from this 
partnership across their retail assets and private label capabilities. 
 
1. Offer 2-hour-ready selection in top 4 cities with improved economics: 
An average hypermarket store carries an in-stock selection of about 
15,000 SKUs - 8500 in softlines, 5500 in grocery and 2000 in general 
merchandising (primarily home and kitchen). There are 104 stores in 

 
Page 28 of 57 
 
top 4 cities. In five years we can scale to 21K orders/day with an AOV 
of $24 (INR 1549) and GMS of $181MM (INR 11B). In this model we 
will bear only the last mile costs with increase in SoA fee for grocery at 
13.5% (+810bps over current levels) and 32% for softlines. Therefore, 
we will improve our order economics with an OP per order of -$0.8 (-
INR 53) or (+2495bps vs. 2021 LRF). OP less infra will be $1.3 (INR 
84) (+2466 bps vs. 2021 LRF) 
 
2. Build and expand 2-hour-delivery service in the next 16 cities: These 
cities are likely to grow faster than the top-4 cities and therefore will 
lead in retail consumption. Taj has nearly 120 stores in these cities and 
carry an average selection of 12,000 SKUs. We expect to expand the 
Copperfield-service to these cities within three years and scale to 31K 
orders per day with an AOV of $20.9 (INR 1,363) by year 5. The order 
economics will be similar to that in top-4 cities. 
 
3. Carry Taj’s private label selection across grocery and softlines 
exclusively: We will leverage Taj’s private label selection to substitute 
and accelerate the private label selection in Pantry. Our 2020-LRP 
assumes private-label penetration of 7.0% as proportion of 
Consumables GMS. We believe we can expand private-label 
participation to 18% by year-3 (current penetration of Taj is at 30% in 
FMCG and 60% in Staples). This will give incremental margins of INR 
26 per order in Pantry. Taj has capabilities from design to 
manufacturing for fast and value-fashion brands in apparels, shoes and 
luggage. Leveraging this capability, we can improve the share of private 
labels to overall Softlines business by 10% (+500bps) in Year-5. 
Secondly, we expect Taj’s fashion stores Fashion-Big-Bazaar, Central 
and Brand Factory to list as a seller, similar to Shopper Stop (we 
invested for a 5% stake in India’s largest offline fashion department 
store to onboard 200K+ ASINs across 300 fashion brands) and generate 
additional 0.5MM order per month. We expect to improve Softlines CP 
by 507bps by year- by a combination of accelerated PL penetration, 
increased selection of Central and Brand Factory and improvement in 
SOA fees. 
 
4. Foot-in-the-door and a strategic option value: Laws in India currently 
do not permit foreign investment in offline retail companies engaged in 
both food and non-food retail. This could change in the next 3-5 years, 
as government of India, is slowly relaxing the laws. At that point, Taj 
will likely still be the largest asset with pan-India footprint and the 
possibility of greater control.” 
 
[Emphasis Supplied] 
 
 

 
Page 29 of 57 
 
34. 
Another important internal document of Amazon that shows the basis of entering into 
the Commercial Arrangements and the share acquisition is its internal note dated 24th 
May, 2018, the relevant extract of which is reproduced as under:   
 
 
 
“Project Taj – National Multi-category Copperfield-seller 
 
Background:…Amazon’s India team likes Taj’s management team, store 
footprint, private label capability and believe they are one of the key players 
in the offline retail space to partner with. In January 2018, the founder of 
Project Taj had visited Seattle and presented the Taj Group’s capabilities to 
Jeff Bezos and the senior leadership team. Since then, we engaged with Taj 
and discussed a Business Commercial Framework (BCF) to build and 
accelerate Ultra-Fast Delivery across top-20 cities in India leveraging Taj’s 
national stores footprint as a Copperfield seller. In India, our ability to pursue 
investments / acquisitions of retailers is limited because laws restrict foreign 
investment in multi-brand retail assets (i.e., retailers selling multiple brands 
across categories under one roof). However, because Taj’s Retail entity is a 
listed company, we could invest up to 9.99% of the company directly as foreign 
shareholders. To execute on the above Business Commercial Framework 
(BCF) the founder of Taj believes a close alignment via a strategic 
investment with an online player is important. We seek your approval to 
indicate our non-binding interest (to Taj’s founder) to invest between $400 to 
$500 MM for up to 9.99% stake in the company. Eventual ownership will vary 
upon final pricing discussions. This indication of interest to invest in Taj will 
allow us to get engaged deeper into discussion on pricing / valuation (given 
fluctuating stock price & regulatory pricing guidelines), deeper financial 
performance of Taj, regulatory hurdles/challenges and strategic rights… 
 
 
Investment Rationale: We believe that a two-hour delivery promise, for 
15,000 SKUs across top-20 cities will be a unique differentiating capability. It 
will allow us to cover 85% of our Prime members and 63% of all customers. 
To serve this customer base, we believe working closely with large Copperfield 
seller is important. We believe that Taj is one of two key pan-India retailers 
worth pursuing. Other retailers are sub-scale or part of business groups, or 
are unsuitable to partner with. Taj has a strong portfolio of private label 
selection in grocery (450+SKUs, across packaged foods, home and personal 
care) and value-fashion (27 brands with a median ASP of $9.2 (INR 600), 
contributing to 80% of their GMS for fashion). An investment in Taj will allow 
us to provide the following benefits, based the commercial terms we have 
been discussing with Taj: (a) expand coverage in top four cities with improve 

 
Page 30 of 57 
 
the merchant fee to 13.5% (+850bps); (b) build a two-hour-delivery service in 
next 20 cities; (c) exclusively carry their private label portfolio in grocery and 
value-fashion; and(d) obtain option value to increase our equity stake when 
laws change. In summary, against an investment of $400 to 500MM in Taj 
we estimate the discounted cash flow value of BCF over 10 years of $702MM 
(INR 45.6B). Our investment will be liquid given that Taj is publicly traded in 
the Indian stock market…” 
 
[Emphasis Supplied] 
 
35. 
The Commission notes that the above three internal documents (Internal 
Correspondence) of Amazon Group are relevant to understand its focus during 
negotiation with Future Group and what were its objectives to be achieved by way of 
entering into the Combination. As may be seen, the negotiations between the parties 
relating to the Combination were taking place as early as May, 2018, wherein Amazon 
initially planned to partner with Future Group, being a key player in the offline retail 
market, by acquiring 9.99% shareholding in FRL as well as entering into a business 
commercial framework to build and accelerate ultra-fast delivery services across the 
top-20 cities in India, leveraging the national footprints of Future Group. Through these 
transactions, Amazon Group wanted to secure its ability to become the single largest 
shareholder of FRL when the foreign direct investment opens up in the retail sector; 
preclude/ block competitive interest in FRL and utilise the pan-India store infrastructure 
of FRL to bolster the ultra-fast delivery program and exclusively carry private label 
portfolio in grocery and value fashion; and drive fees for Amazon. The rationale to enter 
into such Combination included the need for Amazon to build deep strategic alignments 
with offline grocery retailers to leverage their execution capabilities to power the fresh 
and grocery offerings of Amazon. 
 
36. 
The Approval Request dated 18th July, 2019 suggests that, in view of certain 
developments relating to foreign investments in India, instead of directly acquiring 
9.9% shareholding in FRL, Amazon would use a twin-entity investment structure to 
invest in FRL i.e., Amazon would acquire 49% shareholding in FCPL which, in turn 
would hold 8 – 10% of the shareholding in FRL. It was further stated that the number 
of equity shares of FRL to be held by FCPL was calculated such that Amazon can 
indirectly hold the same number of shares of FRL that Amazon would have acquired if 

 
Page 31 of 57 
 
it had directly invested the consideration in FRL. Further, the consideration has been 
arrived at on the basis of traded price of FRL shares, and a 25% premium is paid on 
account of the strategic rights and call option. Furthermore, it is evident that acquisition 
of shares in FRL/FCPL by Amazon was envisaged as a pre-requisite to enter into 
commercial agreements between Amazon and Future groups.  
 
37. 
Seen against the above backdrop, the purpose of the Combination, including the rights 
over FRL and the Commercial Arrangements with FRL, as enlisted in the summary 
dated 18th July, 2019 appended to the Approval Request was for investment in FRL and 
establishing a strategic alignment/partnership between Amazon and Future groups, in 
the Indian retail sector. 
 
38. 
Now coming on to the Notice, it is relevant to look at Item 5.3 of Form I, which requires 
the notifying party to disclose ‘Economic and Strategic purpose (including business 
objective and rationale for each of the parties to the combination and the manner in 
which they are intended to be achieved) of the Combination’. Amazon submitted the 
following as its purpose for the Combination:  
 
“The Investor [Amazon] believes that FCL [FCPL] holds a potential 
for long term value creation and providing returns on its investment. 
The Investor has decided to invest in FCL with a view to strengthen 
and augment the business of FCL (including the marketing and 
distribution of loyalty cards, corporate gift cards and reward cards to 
corporate customers) and unlock the value in the company.”18  
 
39. 
In terms of Regulation 13A of the Combination Regulations, the notifying party is 
required to provide a summary of the combination containing, inter alia, the nature and 
purpose of the combination. The relevant extract of the summary filed by Amazon 
against this requirement states that: 
 
“The Investor [Amazon] believes that FCL [FCPL] holds a potential 
for long term value creation and providing returns on its investment. 
The Investor has decided to invest in FCL with a view to strengthen 
                                                          
18 Para 30, at pp. 30 and 31, of the Notice 
 

 
Page 32 of 57 
 
and augment FCL’s business relating to marketing and distribution of 
corporate gift cards.”19 
  
40. 
Upon examination of the Notice, a specific query was posed to Amazon, vide letter 
dated 9th October, 2019, in relation to Item 5.3 of the Notice viz., ‘2.13 With reference 
to item 5.3 of Form I, please provide the following: … (c) According to media articles 
and statements of Mr. Kishore Biyani, the investment by Amazon is strategic to become 
a part of the ecosystem. Please elaborate’. In response, Amazon had elaborated the gift 
card business of FCPL and the interest of Amazon to expand its portfolio in the 
payments landscape in India and stated that: 
 
 “In this backdrop, it is submitted that the Proposed Combination will 
enable the Parties to: (i) enhance Investor’s [Amazon] existing 
portfolio of investments in the payments landscape in India, (ii) 
provide an opportunity to FCL [FCPL] to learn global trends in digital 
payments solutions and launch new and innovative product offerings; 
and (iii) offer innovative payments solutions to entities so as to 
enhance consumer convenience and user experience”20.  
 
41. 
A further query on the rationale of the rights under FRL SHA was posed to Amazon 
vide letter dated 24th October, 2019 viz. ‘2.5. As per the notice, Acquirer will get certain 
rights over the FRL. You are required to provide details of shareholding (directly / 
indirectly), affirmative rights/veto rights/ rights not available with ordinary 
shareholders in FRL or rights with respect to FRL being acquired by Amazon and 
strategic and or economic rationale for such rights’. In response, Amazon, inter alia, 
stated that:  
“It is submitted that the Investor's [Amazon] decision to invest in FCL 
[FCPL] is, inter alia, based on the following considerations: (a) the 
unique business model of FCL addresses an existing gap in the 
payments landscape in India, thereby making it a strong and sound 
investment opportunity for the Investor (who holds similar existing 
investments in entities engaged in business activities within the 
payments market in India); and (b) while FCL has a strong growth 
                                                          
19 Para 5 at page 954 of the Notice 
 
20 Para 53 at page 35 of the Submission dated 15th November, 2019, in response to the letter dated 9th October, 
2019 of the Commission 
 

 
Page 33 of 57 
 
potential, in the short term, to add credibility to its financial position, 
it has invested in, and proposes to invest in FRL, which is a publicly 
traded company with strong financials and futuristic outlook. In other 
words, the Investor has considered all the above-mentioned factors in 
totality to arrive at the value of the proposed investment…21” 
 
 [Emphasis Supplied] 
 
42. 
Amazon had further claimed in the said response that it does not have any direct or 
indirect shareholding in FRL22, and with a view to protect its investment in FCPL, 
certain rights have been granted with respect to FCPL’s investment in FRL. These rights 
were  stated to be: (a) ‘contractual investor protection right... with no voting rights, 
with a view to protect its investment in FCL [FCPL]’23; (b) ‘standard investment 
protection rights that are commonplace in investment agreements’24; (c) ‘it would be 
important to note that not only are investors rights limited in scope, they also not extend 
to any subject matter that encroaches upon the commercial and operation decision 
making process of the FRL...25’; and (d) ‘investor drives value of its investment from 
FCL and FRL (by virtue of being an underlying asset of FCL). Therefore, it is essential 
for the Investor to secure certain rights to protect its investment’26.  
 
43. 
In stark contrast to the Internal Correspondence of Amazon, the disclosures made 
against Item 5.3 of Form I, summary filed pursuant to Regulation 13A of the 
Combination Regulations, query 2.13(c) of letter dated 9th October, 2019 and query 2.5 
of the letter dated 24th October, 2019, did not indicate a possibility of the Combination 
being pursued by Amazon for having a ‘foot-in-door’ in the Indian retail sector, acquire 
strategic rights over FRL or entering into any commercial partnership with FRL to 
                                                          
21 Page 35 of submission dated 15th Nov., 2019 of Amazon (response to letter dated 24th Oct., 2019) 
 
22 Page 35 of submission dated 15th Nov., 2019 of Amazon (response to letter dated 24th Oct., 2019) 
 
23 Page 37 of submission dated 15th Nov., 2019 of Amazon (response to letter dated 24th Oct., 2019) 
 
24 Page 39 of submission dated 15th Nov., 2019 of Amazon (response to letter dated 24th Oct., 2019) 
 
25 Page 40 of submission dated 15th Nov., 2019 of Amazon (response to letter dated 24th Oct., 2019) 
 
26 Page 43 of submission dated 15th Nov., 2019 of Amazon (response to letter dated 24th Oct., 2019) 
 

 
Page 34 of 57 
 
expand the ability of Amazon in ultra-fast delivery services. Instead, the business 
potential of FCPL was shown as the driving factor for Amazon to pursue the 
Combination and FRL was merely shown as a factor of financial strength. The Internal 
Correspondence of Amazon makes it abundantly clear that Amazon was all along 
focussed/interested in FRL. The Internal Correspondence of Amazon does not speak 
about the business potential of FCPL, as has been claimed and projected in the Notice 
and in the responses to the letters of the Commission. Similarly, the Notice presents the 
rationale of indirect rights over FRL, as protection to investment in FCPL but the 
Situation Update dated 10th July, 2018 identifies the same set of rights as answer to the 
following question ‘What strategic rights do we get through this investment.’ The 
expressions used by Amazon to describe the rationale behind the indirect rights over 
FRL varied from time to time: ‘strategic rights’ in its Internal Correspondence; 
‘protection to investment in FCPL’ in the Notice given to Commission; and ‘rights 
derived from FRL SHA are to protect the interest of the investor [Amazon]’ in the 
response to SCN. While the object and purport of mere investor protection rights are 
limited to protect the investment made, the object and purport of strategic rights, such 
as those reflected in the Internal Correspondence, are much different. Such difference 
is of significance in establishing a proper understanding of a combination and its 
purpose, and accordingly, deciding the appropriate line of inquiry to assess the effects 
of the combination on competition. The Commission observes that, in every case of 
investment, the acquirer would want to protect the value of its investment and the 
returns therefrom. However, when a strategic acquisition is contemplated to achieve 
synergies amongst the business activities of acquirer and target enterprise through 
acquisition of shareholding (or) integration of whole/part of their business (or) 
commercial contracts/arrangements (or) a combination of these, any right accruing to 
acquirer pursuant to such acquisition would be beyond, but not limited to, mere investor 
protection. The purpose of securing strategic interest over FRL and commercial 
partnership with FRL is much different from FRL, a company with strong financials 
and futuristic outlook, being merely taken as an element of financial strength and 
protection to the investment in FCPL.  
 

 
Page 35 of 57 
 
44. 
In the Notice, Amazon had represented that its rationale behind the Combination was 
the business potential of FCPL to create long term value and provide return on the 
investment made by Amazon. However, the Internal Correspondence of Amazon 
clearly shows different purposes for envisaging the Combination (i.e., ‘foot-in-door’ in 
the Indian retail sector, secure rights over FRL that are considered as strategic by 
Amazon and Commercial Arrangements between the retail business of Future Group 
and Amazon). In its response to the letters dated 9th October, 2019 and 24th October, 
2019 of the Commission, Amazon had continued with the suppression of actual purpose 
of the Combination. Amazon has not contested the genuineness of the Internal 
Correspondence or their contents. It is obvious that the purpose of Amazon to pursue 
the Combination was not the potential of the gift and loyalty card business of FCPL, as 
has been claimed in the Notice. Rather, FCPL was envisaged only as a vehicle in the 
Combination to which no value or purpose is ascribed in the Internal Correspondence. 
Further, it is clear from the above discussed e-mail dated 19th July, 2019 that the entire 
consideration of the Combination has been arrived at on the basis of 25% premium to 
the regulatory price of FRL shares and that such premium was paid on account of the 
strategic rights and the call option provided to Amazon. Thus, the instant matter is a 
clear, conscious and willful case of omission to state the actual purpose of the 
Combination despite the disclosure requirement under Item 5.3 of Form I read with 
Regulation 5 of the Combination Regulations and Section 6(2) of the Act. Further, 
Amazon has failed to provide any material or plausible explanation in its response to 
the SCN and in the subsequent submissions to demonstrate that its disclosures against 
Item 5.3 are correct and that the business potential of FCPL was a consideration for 
Amazon to pursue the Combination. Seen in the context of the Internal Correspondence 
and failure to provide any of the said material and/or explanation, it is evident that 
Amazon, in addition to the omission to state the purpose of the Combination, has 
misrepresented the Commission by stating that the purpose of the Combination is an 
opportunity arising from the business potential of FCPL and to add credibility to 
FCPL’s financial position, FCPL invested and proposed to further invest in FRL,  a 
company with strong financials and futuristic outlook. Seen against the backdrop of 
Internal Correspondence, the statements of Amazon in the Notice and subsequent 

 
Page 36 of 57 
 
submissions dated 15th November, 2019 regarding the purpose of the Combination, 
stand belied. It is evident that these statements have been made with full knowledge 
that the same are false in material particulars. Amazon had misled the Commission to 
believe, through false statements and material omissions, that the Combination and its 
purpose were the interest of Amazon in the business of FCPL. 
 
45. 
At this juncture, it also relevant to look at the disclosure of Amazon against Item 8.8 of 
Form I, which requires a notifying party to furnish documents, material (including 
reports, studies, plan, latest version of other documents), etc. considered by and/or 
presented to the board of directors and/or key managerial person of the parties to the 
combination and/or their relevant group entities, in relation to the proposed 
combination. The purpose of this requirement is to understand the commercial and 
economic contours of the given combination in addition to the legal contracts submitted 
as trigger documents against Item 8.7 of Form I. True and complete disclosure against 
Item 8.8 enables the Commission to determine the appropriate framework for 
competition assessment of the Combination. In response to Item 8.8, Amazon had 
furnished a presentation titled ‘Taj Coupons - Business Plan for 5 years’. The eight-
page presentation provides only a brief idea of the gift voucher business of FCPL, its 
business operating model, estimated five-year business size, organisation design, sales 
team and financial summary, without any reference to FRL.  
 
46. 
Considering the disclosures in the Notice, including that against Item 8.8, a specific 
query was posed to Amazon vide letter dated 24th October, 2019 of the Commission: 
‘2.1 It is noted that in terms of query 8.8 of Form I, Parties have not furnished requisite 
documents. Accordingly, you are required to provide documents, material (including 
reports, studies, plan, latest version of other documents), etc. considered by and/or 
presented to the board of directors and/or key managerial person of the parties to the 
combination and/or their relevant group entities, in relation to the proposed 
combination. Further, for each document, indicate the date of preparation and the name 
and title of the addressee(s)’.  
 

 
Page 37 of 57 
 
47. 
In response, Amazon furnished copies of resolution authorising the execution of FCPL 
SSA and FCPL SHA, and copies of the reports on legal due-diligence and key tax issues 
relating to FCPL. Neither copies of the above discussed Internal Correspondence nor 
any other document containing the actual purpose reflected in the said documents was 
furnished to the Commission. It is noted that no purpose elaborated in the Internal 
Correspondence surfaced in any of the material furnished against Item 8.8 of Form I or 
query 2.1 of the letter dated 24th October, 2019 of the Commission. Similarly, the 
purpose of the Combination stated in the Notice and subsequent submissions of 
Amazon, were not a consideration in the Internal Correspondence. These clearly 
establish that Amazon had knowingly suppressed relevant and material documents to 
be furnished under Item 8.8 of Form I.  
 
48. 
In view of the above, the Commission notes that the Internal Correspondence discussed 
above clearly demonstrates that Amazon had failed to disclose true and complete details 
of the purpose of the Combination, which is required to be given under Item 5.3 of Form 
I. Further, Amazon had misrepresented that its decision to pursue the Combination was 
based on the unique business model of FCPL, and that FRL, a company with strong 
financials and futuristic outlook, is relevant to the Combination only from the 
perspective of financial strength to FCPL. As brought out earlier, Amazon also failed 
to disclose and clarify the real purpose of the Combination in the Notice and continued 
with its false/misleading assertions even in its response to the queries posed vide letters 
dated 9th October, 2019 and 24th October, 2019 of the Commission. Amazon has also 
supressed relevant and material documents required to be furnished in terms of Item 8.8 
of Form I. Considering these, the Commission has no hesitation to hold that such 
conducts of Amazon amount to suppression and misrepresentation of the purpose of the 
Combination, which is a material particular. This is in contravention of the provisions 
contained in clauses (a) and (b) of Section 44 and clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 
45 of the Act. The conduct of Amazon in supressing relevant and material documents 
against the disclosure requirement under Item 8.8 of Form I is a contravention of clause 
(c) of sub-section (1) of Section 45 of the Act. Similarly, the rights over FRL that were 
considered as strategic in the Internal Correspondence of Amazon, were represented as 

 
Page 38 of 57 
 
mere investor protection rights. Such repeated assertions, contrary to their actual 
purport, amount to statements that are false in material particular, in contravention of 
the provisions contained in clauses (a) and (b) of Section 44 and clause (a) of sub-
section (1) of Section 45 of the Act. 
 
49. 
Another issue that arises for determination out of SCN, is whether FRL SHA was 
identified and notified as an inter-connected part of the Combination, in terms of 
Regulations 9(4) and 9(5) of the Combination Regulations. In response to the SCN, 
Amazon has, inter alia, submitted that there was no reason for Amazon to represent 
that the FRL SHA was negotiated independent of its investment in FCPL27. In the 
written submissions filed following the oral hearing in the matter28, Amazon has further 
submitted that it had disclosed FRL SHA to the Commission in compliance with the 
requirements of Regulation 9(4) and 9(5) of the Combination Regulations.   
 
50. 
Before determining the merits of this issue, it is pertinent to note the relevant provisions 
of the Act and the Combination Regulations. Unlike the proceedings relating to anti-
competitive agreements and abuse of dominant position, the Act envisages ex ante 
regulation of combinations. Section 5 of the Act means combination as acquisition of 
shares, voting rights, assets or control, merger or amalgamation between enterprises, 
provided the parties meet the financial thresholds provided therein.  Section 6(1) of the 
Act prohibits combination that causes or likely to cause appreciable adverse effect on 
competition. Section 6(2) of the Act obliges parties to combination to give notice in 
respect of their proposed combination, in the form as may be specified. Further, Section 
6(2A) of the Act provides that a combination notified to the Commission shall not come 
into effect for a period of 210 days from the date of notification or earlier approval by 
the Commission. If the Commission fails to take a decision within the said time period, 
the combination would be deemed approved. Thus, the scheme and purpose of the Act 
is to provide a time-bound opportunity to the Commission to evaluate the likely effects 
of the proposed combination on competition in the relevant market(s) in India and 
                                                          
27 Page 19 of the response of Amazon filed on 28th July, 2019 
 
28 Para 58 at page 8 of the written submissions of Amazon filed on 5th October, 2021  

 
Page 39 of 57 
 
regulate them appropriately. If a party fails to comply with the requirement of  Section 
6(2) of the Act to give notice to the Commission of their proposed combination, the 
same would attract penalty under Section 43A of Act.  
 
51. 
In exercise of the powers conferred under Section 64 read with Section 6(2) of the Act, 
the Commission has issued the Combination Regulations, which govern the procedural 
aspects relating to regulation of combinations. These regulations provide that a 
notifying party may choose to give notice under Section 6(2) of the Act either in Form 
I or Form II. While Form I is a short form, Form II requires detailed information and is 
preferred in cases where the business activities of the parties are similar or identical or 
substitutable and their market share is higher than 15% in the relevant market, or the 
activities of the parties are in different levels of the production chain and the individual 
or combined market share of the parties is more than 25% in the relevant market.  
 
52. 
Regulation 9(4) of the Combination Regulations states that “Where the ultimate 
intended effect of a business transaction is achieved by way of a series of steps or 
smaller individual transactions which are inter-connected, one or more of which may 
amount to a combination, a single notice, covering all these transactions, shall be filed 
by the parties to the combination”. This provision makes it mandatory for parties to the 
combination to give one notice covering all inter-connected steps of their proposed 
combination. Further, Regulation 9(5) of the Combination Regulations stipulates that 
“The requirement of filing notice under regulation 5 of these regulations shall be 
determined with respect to the substance of the transaction and any structure of the 
transaction(s), comprising a combination, that has the effect of avoiding notice in 
respect of the whole or a part of the combination shall be disregarded”.  
 
53. 
In the context of the notification of inter-connected steps of a combination under 
Section 6(2) of the Act and applicability of exemption to such a step, on a standalone 
basis, the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in Competition Commission of India v. 
Thomas Cook & Anr.29 held that technical interpretation to isolate two steps of the same 
                                                          
29 Judgment dated 17th April, 2018 in Civil Appeal No.13578 of 2015 

 
Page 40 of 57 
 
combination would be contrary to the sprit and provisions of the Act. In the said matter, 
the Commission, in its decision30, had observed that considering two different 
transactions as one combination depends on the facts and circumstances of each case 
with due regard to the subject matter of the transactions; the business and entities 
involved; simultaneity in negotiation, execution and consummation of the transactions; 
and also, whether it is practical and reasonable to isolate and view the transactions 
separately. In another decision of the Commission relating to Canada Pension Plan 
Investment Board and ReNew Power Limited31, the Commission observed that a holistic 
appreciation of the facts and circumstances of the given case would be relevant to 
determine inter-connectedness and an isolated or piecemeal appreciation of specific 
facts or parameters may not yield any pragmatic conclusion. 
 
54. 
As brought out earlier, the Combination in the instant matter, is a composite of 
acquisition of shares, rights and commercial contracts. These together were for the 
purpose of a strategic alignment amongst the business of the parties, in particular to 
expand the ultra-fast delivery service of Amazon. The internal notes and e-mails dated 
24th May, 2018, 10th July, 2018 and 18th July, 2019 clearly reveal that all the said three 
elements have always been considered parts of one proposal, ‘Project Taj’. In particular, 
the internal note dated 24th May, 2018 shows that Amazon had initially proposed 
approval to the strategic investment so that the parties could execute the commercial 
agreements and had estimated the returns on its investment in FRL through discounted 
cash flows from such agreements over 10 years. The commercial agreement and 
acquisition of shares in FCPL to secure shareholding and rights over FRL had been 
inter-connected to each other and were conceived, contemplated, negotiated and 
consummated as part of one composite combination. However, Transaction I, 
Transaction II and Transaction III alone were identified and notified as constituent steps 
                                                          
 
30 Order dated 21st May, 2014 passed under Section 43A of the Act in Combination Registration No. C-
2014/02/153 
 
31 Order dated 21 November, 2019 under Sections 43A and 44 Chapter VI of the Act 
 

 
Page 41 of 57 
 
of the Combination32, and FCPL SSA and FCPL SHA alone were stated as agreements 
executed in relation to the Combination33. These details are further discussed in the 
succeeding paragraphs. 
  
55. 
The fact that FRL SHA was part of the Combination and was executed at the behest of 
Amazon, is overwhelmingly evident from the email dated 4th April, 2019 of Amazon to 
Future Group which, inter alia, states as follows:    
 
4. Enforcement of rights 
with respect to FRL 
The SHA provides certain rights which are specific 
to FRL, being: 
 
 The right of Alpha to appoint an observer; 
 Veto of Alpha on further funding (if not done in 
accordance with the provisions of the SHA) 
 Veto of Alpha on transfer of assets; 
 Veto of Alpha in case of amendment of charter 
documents which impacts Alpha’s rights; 
 ROFR of Alpha in case of Restricted 
Transaction; 
 Process for further funding by FRL. 
As per the current proposal Alpha has no recourse 
in case FRL does not give effect to these 
provisions, including for instance, if Promoters for 
any reason are not able to exercise their vote on 
such matters. To ensure that these rights are 
enforceable against FRL albeit through the 
Company, it is preferred that these rights are 
captured by way of a specific agreement between 
the Company, the Promoters, and TRL. The 
manner in which the Company exercises these 
rights will be a veto matter under the SHA. 
Further, the articles of association of FRL will also 
be required to be amended to include such rights. 
 
 
[Emphasis Supplied] 
 
                                                          
32 Disclosure against Item 5.1.2 of Form I at paragraphs 15 and 16, at pages 20 and 21, of the Notice 
  
33 Para 34, at page 35, of the Notice and Para 44, at page 48, of the written submissions dated 15th November, 
2019, in response to the letter dated 09th October, 2019  

 
Page 42 of 57 
 
56. 
To determine whether FRL SHA was identified and notified as a part of the 
Combination, as claimed in the response to SCN, it is relevant to look at Part V of Form 
I, which requires a notifying party to describe the details of the proposed combination 
notified to the Commission. Item 5.1 seeks details of the Combination notified under 
Section 6(2) of the Act. The same is reproduced for ease of reference: 
 
“5.1.  
Scope of the combination notified pursuant to sub-section (2) of 
section 6 of the Act (with reference to relevant clause under the 
agreement(s), as applicable):  
 
5.1.1.  
Details of acquisition or merger or amalgamation, as the case 
may be, with reference to relevant clause of section 5;  
 
5.1.2.  
Any other transaction(s) that is/are inter-connected, in terms of 
sub-regulation (4) and / or (5) of regulation 9 of these 
regulations; and  
 
5.1.3.  
Right(s) acquired or arising out of or in connection with the 
transaction(s) referred to at 5.1.1 and 5.1.2 above.” 
 
57. 
It is observed that, in response to Item 5.1.1, no reference was given to FRL SHA or 
the Commercial Arrangements. Amazon had merely submitted that the value of assets 
and turnover of FRL is higher than the jurisdictional threshold prescribed under Section 
5(a)(i)(A) of the Act. Based on the information relating to the constituent steps of the 
Combination provided in pages 2 and 3 of the Notice and the disclosure against Item 
5.1.2, it is apparent that the financials of FRL were taken into consideration as it was 
identified as the target enterprise in Transaction II. However, no reference was made to 
FRL SHA in the disclosures against Items 5.1.1 and 5.1.2. FRL SHA and the 
commercial agreements, being inter-connected parts of the Combination, their details 
ought to have been furnished in Item 5.1.2 of Form I. In response to Item 5.1.3, Amazon 
had given a list of rights to be acquired by it in terms of FCPL SHA to protect its 
investment in FCPL (Table 3 – The rights proposed to be acquired by the Investor in 
terms of the SHA to protect its investment in FCL)34. In this section, it has been brought 
out that FCPL has to take Amazon’s consent for exercising some of its rights under 
                                                          
34 Para 24 at Page 23 of the Notice 

 
Page 43 of 57 
 
FRL SHA. However, it has never been the case that Amazon disclosed the fact that FRL 
SHA was negotiated as a part of the Combination and was executed to achieve one of 
the objectives of the Combination. Similarly, no reference about the commercial 
agreements was made in this section of the Notice. The Commission observes that mere 
consideration of the values of the asset and turnover of FRL cannot be considered as 
notification of FRL SHA and BCAs, as parts of the Combination. 
 
58. 
Item 5.2 of Form I requires the notifying party to disclose: 
 
“Step(s) to give effect to the combination, along with timelines for each 
step(s) of the combination” 
 
[Emphasis Supplied]  
 
59. 
In response the this, Amazon provided the following disclosure: 
 
“The milestones relating to the Proposed Combination have been 
undertaken as follows:  
 
Table 4- Milestones for the Proposed Combination 
 
Milestone 
Date 
Execution of the SSA [FCPL SSA] 
amongst the Investor, Promoters 
and FCL in relation to the 
acquisition of the Subscription 
Shares 
August 22,2019 
Execution of SHA [FCPL SHA] 
amongst the Investor, Promoters 
and FCL. 
August 22, 2019 
 
The Proposed Transaction I and Proposed Transaction II are conditions 
precedent to Proposed Transaction Ill. Therefore, after receipt of the 
approval of the Hon'ble Commission, in order to effectuate Proposed 
Transaction III, the Promoter Group will carry out Proposed Transaction 
I and Proposed Transaction II. Under the SSA, the Long Stop Date is 180 
days from the date of execution, i.e., 18 February 2020 (or such date as 
may be mutually agreed between the parties)35” 
 [Emphasis Supplied] 
                                                          
35 Paras 25 and 26, at pp. 28 and 29, of the Notice 

 
Page 44 of 57 
 
60. 
As may be seen above, details of FRL SHA were not mentioned in Item 5.2. As has 
emerged now, FRL SHA and the commercial agreements were inter-connected parts of 
the Combination and accordingly, their details ought to have been disclosed against 
Item 5.1.2 and in the above table. 
 
61. 
At para 34 of the Notice, Amazon had stated that “The Parties have only executed the 
SSA [FCPL SSA] and the SHA [FCPL SHA] in relation to the Proposed Combination.”. 
Further, in response to query 2.12 of the letter dated 9th October, 2019 - ‘Please 
elaborate all types of rights that Amazon would acquire viz. shareholder, commercial, 
business related, exclusivity rights etc. as a result of proposed combination’, Amazon 
had, inter alia, stated that: 
 
“it is submitted that the Proposed Combination, in its entirety, is 
envisaged within the SHA [FCPL SHA] and the SSA [FCPL SSA], and 
that the SHA [FCPL SHA] and the SSA [FCPL SSA] are the only 
transactional 
documents 
executed 
pursuant 
to 
the 
Proposed 
Combination…” 
[Emphasis Supplied]  
 
62. 
Similar to the disclosures against Items 5.1.1, 5.1.2, 5.2 and 5.3, ‘Part I: Basic 
Information’ of the Combination, presented at pages 1 to 5 of the Notice, also does not 
reveal that FRL SHA and the BCAs were part of the Combination, and that FRL SHA 
was executed to confer to Amazon indirect rights over FRL, which Amazon considered 
strategic in the Internal Correspondence. On page 5 of the Notice, it was stated that 
FCPL SSA and FCPL SHA are the transaction documents that were entered into in 
relation to the Combination. 
 
63. 
In response to a specific query 2.5 vide letter dated 24th October, 2019 of the 
Commission, on the nature of rights and interest over FRL, Amazon in its submission 
dated 15th November, 2019 had, inter alia, submitted that:  
 
“The Investor [Amazon] has limited investor protection rights in FCL 
[FCPL] with a view to protect the value of its investment in FCL. Further, 
while all decisions with respect to FCL's investment in FRL will be taken 
by the board of directors of FCL, however, with a view to protect the 

 
Page 45 of 57 
 
Investor's investment in FCL, certain rights have been granted to the 
Investor with respect to FCL's investment in FRL. It is important to 
highlight that these rights can be exercised only through FCL, and not 
directly by the Investor. Importantly, these rights have been derived from 
the rights granted to FCL in terms of the FRL SHA which was negotiated 
by the Promoters, FRL [ FCPL] and FRL independent of the investment 
by the Investor in FCL, and with a view to unlock value for FCL. These 
rights have been granted to FCL with a view that FCL would exercise its 
rights as a shareholder of FRL to protect the interest of its· own 
shareholders, including the Investor”  
 
[Emphasis Supplied] 
 
This was a categorical statement by Amazon that FRL SHA is independent of the 
Combination. Similarly, the commercial agreements were also stated as being neither a 
part nor inter-connected to the Combination, although they were at the heart of the one 
composite proposal viz. Project Taj [Future] all along.  
 
64. 
In relation to the above submissions, Amazon has submitted that it had inadvertently 
missed to add the following words: ‘which was executed subsequent to the Warrants 
Transaction36’ between the words ‘FRL SHA’ and ‘which’, and in one of the places, 
FRL needs to be read as FCPL. It has been further claimed that the impugned statement 
needs to be read with footnote 3 of the Notice, which reads as follows: It may be noted 
that prior to the Proposed Combination, FCL had acquired equity warrants of FRL, 
convertible into equity shares representing seven decimal three percent (7.30%) of the 
share capital of FRL within a period of eighteen (18) months from the date of allotment. 
This transaction was notified to the Hon'ble Commission through a notification dated 
March 19, 2019 (Combination Registration No. 2019/03/653) and was unconditionally 
approved by the Hon'ble Commission through its order dated April 15, 2019. 
Subsequently, the Promoters (defined hereinafter) (including FCRPL), FCL and FRL 
have entered into a shareholders agreement dated August 12, 2019 ("FRL SHA") which 
sets forth the inter se mutual rights and obligations of the parties to the FRL SHA as 
shareholders of FRL (See, Section 8 and Section 9 of the FRL SHA). A copy of the FRL 
SHA is attached as ANNEXURE 33. It is clarified that the execution of the FRL SHA 
                                                          
36 Para 39(d), at page 18, of the response to SCN filed on 28th July, 2021  

 
Page 46 of 57 
 
is pursuant to FCL's acquisition of equity warrants of FRL (see Recitals 0 and E of 
the FRL SHA).” 
[Emphasis Supplied] 
 
65. 
Accordingly, Amazon has contended that the impugned statement should be read as: 
 
 “Importantly, these rights have been derived from the rights granted to 
FCL [FCPL] in terms of the FRL SHA which was executed subsequent to 
the Warrants Transaction which was negotiated by the Promoters, FCPL 
and FRL independent of the investment by the Investor in FCL, and with 
a view to unlock value for FCL. These rights have been granted to FCL 
with a view that FCL would exercise its rights as a shareholder of FRL to 
protect the interest of its· own shareholders, including the Investor”.  
 
[Underlined portion added]  
 
66. 
On the claim that the impugned statement needs to be read with footnote 3 of the Notice, 
the Commission observes that the same states that FRL SHA was executed pursuant to 
the Warrant Transaction. It may be true that FCPL held warrants in FRL and the same 
fact was reflected as one of the recitals of FRL SHA. The Notice, however, nowhere 
discloses the fact that FRL SHA was negotiated as part of the Combination and was 
executed for the purpose of Amazon acquiring rights over FRL, through FCPL SHA, 
and that Amazon had insisted for FRL SHA to be entered into as a prerequisite to 
Transaction III. In the absence this material fact being disclosed, footnote 3, read with 
the disclosures and statements in the Notice and subsequent submissions of Amazon, 
including those against Items 5.1.2 and 5.2 of Form I, statements made in paragraphs 
34 of the Notice and paragraph 44 of the submission dated 15th November, 2019 (in 
response to the letter dated 9th October, 2019 of the Commission), the impugned 
statement is self-evidently misleading to the effect that FRL SHA was not a part of the 
Combination and is only pursuant to the Warrants Transaction. Further, the Notice and 
subsequent submissions of Amazon, including footnote 3 and the impugned statement 
above read as a whole bring out that Amazon was not forthcoming in disclosing the true 
and complete background/information regarding FRL SHA, particularly its inter-
connectedness with the Combination and its purpose. 

 
Page 47 of 57 
 
 
67. 
As regards the contention on inadvertent omission, it is noted that the impugned 
submission dated 15th November, 2019 of Amazon was in response to query 2.5 of the 
letter dated 24th October, 2019 of the Commission. The query related to the rights of 
Amazon over FRL and the strategic and economic rationale behind them. Consistent 
with the design of projecting FRL only as an element of financial strength to FCPL and 
all its engagement with Amazon Group as independent of the Combination, Amazon 
had replied that the rights over FRL are for the limited purpose of protecting the 
investment in FCPL. It is pertinent to note that Amazon suppressed the actual purpose 
of the Combination; the fact that FRL SHA was executed to ensure that Amazon 
indirectly gets the strategic rights over FRL; and the BCAs are parts of the Combination. 
When seen in totality, the Commission is of the considered view that the claim of 
purported omission to add the words “which was executed subsequent to the Warrants 
Transaction” is an afterthought and not an inadvertent omission. Amazon now claims 
that there was no reason for it to represent that the FRL SHA was negotiated 
independent of its investment in FCPL. In such a case, Amazon ought to have disclosed 
FRL SHA and related material particulars against Items 5.1.1, 5.1.2 and 5.2 of Form I. 
Thus, the Commission is not inclined to persuade itself to accept the plea of ‘omission’ 
taken by Amazon, and the Commission has no hesitation in holding that the same is 
clearly an attempt in afterthought. 
 
68. 
The Internal Correspondence of Amazon clearly highlights that the rights of Amazon 
over FRL are at the heart of the negotiations and the need for FRL SHA was to achieve 
the said objective of the Combination. It is for these strategic rights and for the call 
option, that Amazon had paid a premium of 25% over the regulatory share price of FRL. 
This makes it clear that neither FRL SHA would have been executed in the absence of 
other steps/ transactions of the Combination nor would Amazon have gone ahead with 
Transaction III in the absence of FRL SHA.  However, in blatant disregard of 
Regulation 9(4) and 9(5), read with Items 5.1.1, 5.1.2, 5.2 and 8.7 of Form I, FRL SHA 
was not disclosed in the Notice in its actual context; its inter-connectedness to FCPL 
SSA and FCPL SHA were suppressed in spite of the disclosure requirements under the 
said provisions of Combination Regulations. In other words, the mentioning of FRL 

 
Page 48 of 57 
 
SHA in footnote 3 of the Notice can, in no manner, be considered a notification of the 
same as a part of the Combination either in substance or form. This is more so when 
there were repeated or categorical assertions that the rights over FRL are limited to 
investor protection and no influence over FRL is acquired and FRL SHA was negotiated 
independent of the combination. Therefore, Amazon failed to give a single notice 
covering all the inter-connected steps of the combination, as required in Regulation 9(4) 
read with Regulations 9(5) and 5 of the Combination Regulations, and Section 6(2) of 
the Act. Further, Amazon also failed to give true and complete disclosure with respect 
to substance of its combination in this case, as the FRL SHA was pursued to ensure that 
the business of FRL become a strategic asset for Amazon to expand and enhance its 
ultra-fast delivery services.  
 
69. 
The Internal Correspondence show that the strategic rights over FRL though FRL SHA 
and FCPL SHA were contemplated by the parties to establish and cement their strategic 
partnership through a series of commercial agreements. The inquiry in pursuance of the 
SCN reveals that the Commercial Agreements were essential and inter-connected parts 
of the Combination and those were the trigger for Amazon to acquire shareholding in 
FCPL as well as secure rights over FRL. The fact that the commercial agreements are 
integral parts of the Combination was suppressed in the Notice and the subsequent 
submissions of Amazon. Amazon had consistently represented that BCAs are 
independent of the Combination. In para 65 of the Notice, the arrangements between 
Amazon and FRL for listing of the products of the latter in Amazon marketplace were 
claimed as “neither inter-connected with, nor part of, the Proposed Combination”. In 
para 96 of the Notice, the arrangement between ARIPL and Future Consumer for supply 
of food category products to the formers was stated as “not related to the Proposed 
Combination, in any manner whatsoever”.  Further, in para 100 of the Notice, in 
relation to the memorandum between APIPL and FRL to offer the option of making 
payments through the Amazon Pay semi-closed wallet to end consumers making 
purchases across retail outlets and websites operated by FRL and entities controlled or 
wholly owned by FRL, it was clarified that the MoU is not related to the Proposed 
Combination, in any manner whatsoever. Amazon continued with these assertions in 

 
Page 49 of 57 
 
paragraphs 45 and 72 of the written submissions dated 15th November, 2019, filed in 
response to the letter dated 9th October, 2021 of the Commission and paragraphs 4 and 
44 of the written submissions dated 15th November, 2019, filed in response to the letter 
dated 24th October, 2021 of the Commission. These repeated assertions invariably 
suggest that these commercial contracts were negotiated and executed in the  normal 
course of business of the concerned parties independent of the Combination. The 
distorted disclosures and omissions in the Notice and subsequent submissions dated 15th 
November, 2019 of Amazon, as discussed above, do not allow to even suspect that the 
Commercial Arrangements were parts of the Combination to establish a strategic 
alignment between the parties in retail sector.  
 
70. 
In relation to the agreements between the affiliates of the parties, Amazon had 
submitted that, given the proximity of the date of execution of these agreements with 
FCPL SSA and FCPL SHA, the parties, in good faith, have decided to give effect to the 
aforementioned agreements only after receipt of the approval from the Commission in 
relation to the Combination37. While this is now being alluded to as an indication in the 
Notice that the said arrangements/agreements are inter-connected to the Combination, 
given the categorical submissions discussed above, the said submission can in no 
manner be considered a disclosure of true, correct and complete information regarding 
BCAs and notification of BCAs as a part of the Combination. These again go on to 
establish that Amazon had supressed the actual scope of the Combination and had made 
false and incorrect statements in relation to the BCAs, which are intertwined into the 
scope and purpose of the Combination.  
 
71. 
The foregoing discussion brings out that Amazon had failed to disclose the fact that 
FRL SHA was negotiated as a part of the Combination and an intrinsic element thereof 
to confer Amazon rights over FRL. This is more so when Amazon had been considering 
these rights as strategic in the Internal Correspondence. The learned counsel for 
Amazon alluded that a combined reading of FCPL SHA, FRL SHA and other 
                                                          
37 Para 66, at page 48, of the Notice and para 44, at page 47 of the submissions dated 15th November, 2019 of 
Amazon, filed in response to the letter dated 24th October, 2019 of the Commission 

 
Page 50 of 57 
 
documents enclosed in the Notice clearly present the actual scope and purpose of the 
Combination. However, no plausible explanation has been given as to why Amazon 
failed to notify FRL SHA as an inter-connected part of the Combination; why the details 
of FRL SHA was omitted in the disclosures against Items 5.1.1, 5.1.2 and 5.2 of Form 
I; and why the rights over FRL were portrayed as limited investor protection rights 
when the Internal Correspondence considers them essential to establish strategic 
alignments with FRL and its affiliates, which also weighed in Amazon paying 25% 
premium over FRL Share price. The mention of FRL SHA in the footnote as an 
agreement executed pursuant to Warrants Transaction, coupled with the assertions that 
FRL SHA was negotiated independent of the acquisition of 49% shareholding in FCPL, 
the indirect rights are for the limited purpose of protecting the investment in FCPL and 
the BCAs are not related to the Combination, shows a deliberate design, not to state the 
true, correct and complete facts regarding FRL SHA, but to suppress and misrepresent 
their inter-connection to the Combination. Such conducts of Amazon are in 
contravention of the provisions contained in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 45 
of the Act. The categorical statements that FRL SHA and BCAs were independent of 
the Combination sufficiently establish that the same were not notified to the 
Commission as a part of the Combination, which is a contravention of the obligation 
contained in Section 6(2) of the Act, which attracts penalty under Section 43A of the 
Act.    
 
72. 
The Act has established the Commission to prevent practices having adverse effect on 
competition, to promote and sustain competition in markets, to protect the interests of 
consumers and to ensure freedom of trade carried on by other participants in markets, 
in India, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. Apart from 
enforcements against anti-competitive agreements and abuse of dominant position, the 
Commission also reviews combinations to ascertain their impact on the concerned 
market structure and determine whether the potential changes make the relevant 
market(s) vulnerable for appreciable adverse effect on competition. Unlike the ex post 
enforcement relating to anti-competitive agreements and abuse of dominant position, 
the proceedings relating to regulation of combinations are ex ante and are based on a 

 
Page 51 of 57 
 
time-bound mandatory notification regime. While Section 6(2) of the Act obligates the 
parties to provide details of the combination, the Commission has to assess the effects 
of combination within a period of 210 days from the date of notification, absent which 
the combination is deemed to be approved. 
 
73. 
It is relevant to note that Section 6(2) of the Act requires any person proposing 
Combination ‘to give notice to the Commission in the form as may be 
specified...disclosing the details of the proposed combination’. The legislative intent 
behind such requirement is that the specified format of the notice would provide the 
Commission with all the information that is necessary to conduct competition 
assessment of the effects of the given combination with due regard to the factors 
enlisted in Section 20(4) of the Act and determine whether the notified combination is 
likely to cause appreciable adverse effect on competition. These have to be completed 
by the Commission within the prescribed time limit of 210 days. The notice given 
pursuant to Section 6(2) of the Act is the starting point of examination of the notified 
combination. To ensure that the notifying party furnishes the relevant particulars, Form 
I requires the notifying party to submit a declaration that “The notifying party declares 
and confirms that all information given in this Form and all pages annexed hereto are 
true, correct and complete to the best of its knowledge and belief, and that all estimates 
are identified as such and are its best estimates based on the underlying facts”. The 
scheme of the Act and Combination Regulations is to establish a trust-based regulatory 
system, wherein the party seeking approval furnishes true, correct and complete details 
of its proposed combination and the Commission inquires the effects of the notified 
combination on competition in the relevant market(s). In this time-bound process, 
misrepresentations and suppressions are serious challenges to the trust based regulatory 
mechanism for combinations and the sanctity of the institutional framework established 
under the Act. 
 
74. 
Seen in the scheme of the Act and the underlying spirit, the notice given under Section 
6(2) of the Act is not a document of complex defence with legal arguments submitted 
in an adversarial litigation, but an application for approval containing relevant facts and 

 
Page 52 of 57 
 
particulars regarding the proposed combination that are true, correct and complete to 
the best of knowledge and belief of the notifying party. The facts, particulars and 
documents required to be furnished under Form I, including the purpose of the 
combination (item 5.3), inter-connected transactions (item 5.1.2) and documents 
considered by boards of the parties or key managerial personnel (Item 8.8), are essential 
to have a full, clear and complete picture of the notified combination. The requirement 
to disclose these material facts and particulars is paramount as they enable the 
Commission to appreciate the commercial and economic contours of the combination 
and decide appropriate framework for assessment in the matter. If a party 
conceals/suppresses and/or misrepresents to the Commission the scope and purpose of 
the Combination and obtains approval, the same would effectively amount to 
approval/consent having been obtained by way of fraud. Such breach of trust of the 
Commission, established under the Act for the benevolent purpose of promoting and 
sustaining competition in markets in India, manifests a deliberate disregard to the trust 
based regulatory mechanism provided under the Act.  
 
75. 
A holistic appreciation of the Notice and material brought on record reveals that there 
has been a wilful and deliberate design threaded across the Notice and subsequent 
submissions dated 15th November, 2019 of Amazon, to suggest that the Combination 
consists of only Transaction I, Transaction II and Transaction III; and that FCPL SSA 
and FCPL SHA are the only two agreements entered into between the parties in relation 
to the Combination. The manner and extent of assertions regarding FRL SHA is that 
the same was a pre-existing arrangement amongst the shareholders of FRL, executed 
pursuant to the Warrants Transaction, and it was negotiated independent of Transaction 
III i.e., acquisition of 49% stake in FCPL by Amazon. The inter-connection between 
FRL SHA and the Combination was suppressed. Similarly, the BCAs, although 
disclosed, were claimed as neither inter-connected with, nor a part of the Combination. 
However, the Internal Correspondence brings out that BCAs and acquisition of strategic 
rights over FRL, through the acquisition of shares in FCPL, had been considered 
together as parts of one composite package, viz., ‘Project Taj [Future Group] – 
Investment in National Multi-category Copperfield Seller’. FCPL was merely a vehicle 

 
Page 53 of 57 
 
for Amazon to acquire interest over FRL, and such interest was considered necessary 
to implement strategic alignments between the business activities of Future and 
Amazon groups in India.  
 
76. 
The learned counsel appearing for Amazon argued that it had disclosed FRL as a 
material entity, the object of attention and that its businesses were essential 
consideration for Amazon to pursue the Combination. This does not meet the 
requirement of notification in Form I read with Regulation 5(2) of the Combination 
Regulations and Section 6(2) of the Act. It is true that Amazon had disclosed several 
materials relating to the overlapping business activities of the parties to the 
Combination, FRL and other affiliates. However, such disclosures relating to the 
overlapping activities of Amazon group and FRL were claimed to be by way of 
abundant caution as FCPL held warrants issued by FRL38 (. Amazon has not provided 
any details in the context of the actual combination, including FRL SHA and BCAs, 
being pursued for strategic alignments between the business activities of Amazon group 
and FRL / its affiliates. In the letter dated 24th October, 2019 of the Commission, the 
following specific query was posed to Amazon: ‘2.9 According to the notice, in certain 
overlapping segments of the areas of the operations of the parties, the combined market 
shares are exceeding the thresholds given in regulation 5 (3) of the Combination 
regulations, you are required to provide justification for filing the notice in Form I’. In 
response, Amazon had inter alia submitted that:  
 
The Investor’s has no shareholding in FRL, and does not exercise any 
control or influence on it, therefore the Proposed Combination should not 
be subjected to Form II filing requirement…In the present case, with a 
view to assist the Hon’ble Commission and out of abundant caution, the 
overlap in the retail market has been identified, pursuant to the FRL 
Warrants held by FCL…”  
 
[Emphasis Supplied]  
 
                                                          
38 Para 80 of the submissions dated 15th November, 2019 of Amazon, in response to the letter dated 24th October, 
2019 of the Commission 

 
Page 54 of 57 
 
These claims were made by completely masking the fact that FRL SHA and BCAs are 
inter-connected parts of the Combination, contemplated to establish strategic 
alignments between the business activities of FRL and Amazon Group. This is a critical 
factor for determining the need for filing Form II in the matter. However, consistent 
with the design across the Notice and subsequent submissions of Amazon, the said 
details were suppressed in response to the said query 2.9.  
 
77. 
The Commission notes that the details of overlap between FRL and Amazon Group, 
provided in the Notice, and subsequent submissions of Amazon as well as the 
competition assessment conducted in the Approval Order are in the context of FCPL 
holding warrants in FRL. However, the said assessment is definitely not from the 
perspective of strategic alignments between FRL and Amazon Group. This is obvious 
from the Approval Order as it does not make any reference to FRL SHA or the BCAs. 
The Commission observes that the effect of commercial contracts entered into between 
FRL and Amazon Group entities, in their normal course of business, would be 
considerably different from parties contemplating strategic alignments between their 
business through strategic investments. The regulatory process of notification by the 
parties that would follow an admission of the commercial contracts being part of the 
combination and also the purpose of the strategic acquisition of shares and rights would 
entail consequential presentation of facts, representations, clarifications and 
undertakings, if any, which would not be present when such contracts are independent 
of the combination. The nature of inquiry by the Commission in these cases would also 
be necessarily with due regard to the acquisition and contracts being part of one single 
understanding to establish a strategic partnership. This regulatory process, in itself, 
makes the notifying party to furnish true, correct and complete information regarding 
the actual combination pursued by the parties and thus, meet the requirements of the 
Act and the Regulations framed thereunder. Concurrently, such process would enable 
the Commission to appreciate the combination in its actual sense, and accordingly, 
discharge its functions in terms of the Act. If one were to argue otherwise, it would be 
sufficient that the notice filed with the Commission merely describes the name of the 
parties and their business activities and there would be no need to give any other detail 

 
Page 55 of 57 
 
as required in Form I or Form II, including the scope of arrangements, their purposes 
and context of the combination. This is ex facie contrary to the scheme and intendment 
of the Act and Combination Regulations.  
 
78. 
The above discussed omissions, false statements and misrepresentations have the effect 
of influencing the line of inquiry in assessing the Combination. Irrespective of what 
would have been the outcome of a notice with true, correct and complete disclosures, 
the misleading submissions, false statements, omission and suppression of material 
particulars, facts and documents discussed above, have denied and disabled the 
Commission an opportunity to assess the effects of the actual Combination, with 
specific focus to the actual intended objectives. Condonation of such lapses would 
effectively mean that a notifying party could disclose its legal contracts in a distorted 
and elongated manner of its convenience and engage in suppressions and 
misrepresentations of the actual scope and purpose of the Combination. This makes all 
details sought in Form I and purpose of regulation of combination under the Act, otiose, 
besides stultifying the very legislative intent for merger review process.  
 
79. 
In sum, Amazon ought to have notified the combination, inter alia, consisting of the 
following inter-connected steps: (a) Transaction I; (b) Transaction II; (c) Transaction 
III; (d) FRL SHA for the purpose of acquisition of strategic rights over FRL through 
FCPL SHA; and (e) commercial agreements between Amazon and Future groups, for 
the purpose of establishing strategic alignment and partnership between Amazon Group 
and FRL as well as have a ‘foot-in-the-door’ in the India retail sector. Amazon failed 
to notify FRL SHA and the commercial arrangements, as parts of the combination 
between the parties, and supressed the actual purpose and particulars of the 
combination, as discussed above, in contravention of the obligation contained in sub-
section (2) of Section 6 of the Act read with Regulation 5 and sub-regulations (4) and 
(5) of Regulation 9 of the Combination Regulations.   
 
80. 
Given that the Combination is between players who are known in the online 
marketplace and offline retailing and they have contemplated strategic alignment 
between their businesses, the Commission considers it necessary to examine the 

 
Page 56 of 57 
 
combination afresh based on a notice to be given in Form II with true, correct and 
complete information, as required therein. Accordingly, in exercise of the powers 
conferred under sub-section (2) of Section 45 of the Act, the Commission hereby directs 
Amazon to give notice in Form II within a period of 60 days from the receipt of this 
order, and, till disposal of such notice, the approval granted vide Order dated 28th 
November, 2019, in Combination Registration No. C-2019/09/688, shall remain in 
abeyance.   
 
81. 
In terms of Section 43A of the Act, if any person or enterprise fails to give notice under 
sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, the Commission shall impose on such person or 
enterprise a penalty which may extend to one percent of the total turnover or the assets, 
whichever is higher, of such a combination. In case of a contravention under Sections 
44 and 45 of the Act, each of the said provision renders the contravening person liable, 
inter alia, to a penalty, as provided therein. Though the penalty under Sections 43A, 44 
and 45 of the Act can be to the extent mentioned therein, the Commission has sufficient 
discretion to consider the conduct of the parties and the circumstances of the case to 
arrive at an appropriate amount of penalty.  
 
82. 
In the instant case, all the contraventions discussed above arise from a deliberate design 
on the part of Amazon to suppress the actual scope and purpose of the Combination, 
and the Commission finds no mitigating factor. Resultantly, the Commission considers 
it appropriate to levy the maximum penalty of INR One Crore each under the provisions 
of Section 44 and Section 45 of Act. Accordingly, Amazon is directed to pay a penalty 
of INR Two Crore.  
 
83. 
As regards failure to notify combination in terms of the obligation cast under Section 
6(2) of the Act, Section 43A of the Act enables the Commission to impose a penalty, 
which may extend to one percent of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, 
of such a combination. Accordingly, for the above mentioned reasons, the Commission 
hereby imposes a penalty of INR Two Hundred Crore upon Amazon.  
 
 

 
Page 57 of 57 
 
 
84. 
Amazon is directed to pay monetary penalty as imposed vide paras 82 and 83 above, 
within a period of 60 days from the receipt of this order.  
 
85. 
It is made clear that nothing contained in this order shall be deemed to be confidential 
as the same has been used for the purposes of the Act in terms of the provisions 
contained in Section 57 of the Act.   
 
86. 
The Secretary is directed to inform the concerned parties, accordingly.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
