 
Page 1 of 13 
 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA  
Ref. No.: M&A/10/2020/01/CD   
14th January 2025 
In re: Proceedings against Goldman Sachs (India) Alternative Investment Management 
Private Limited under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 
  
CORAM:   
 
Ms. Ravneet Kaur  
Chairperson 
 
Mr. Anil Agrawal 
Member 
 
Ms. Sweta Kakkad 
Member  
 
Mr. Deepak Anurag 
Member 
 
Appearances: Mr. Rajshekhar Rao, Senior Advocate; Mr. Harman Singh Sandhu, Mr. Mithun 
V. Thanks, Ms. Shraddha Suryavanshi, Ms. Raveena Kumari Sethia, Mr. Abhishek Hazari, Ms. 
Aashna Chawla and Mr. Wamic Wasim Nargal, Advocates; and Mr. Greg Flyn, Mr. Shaswata 
Dutta, representative of Goldman Sachs.  
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002  
 
1. This order shall dispose of the proceedings against Goldman Sachs (India) Alternative 
Investment Management Private Limited (GS AIMPL), the investment manager of Goldman 
Sachs AIF Scheme-1 (GS AIF) [collectively ‘GS’], under Section 43A of the Competition 
Act, 2002 (Act) in relation to subscription by GS AIF, acting through GS AIMPL, to 
optionally convertible debentures (OCDs) issued by Biocon Biologics Limited (Biocon) 
which, if calculated on the date of the investment, would have converted to 3.81 percent of 
the entire shareholding of Biocon (on a fully diluted basis) [Transaction].  

  
                                         
  
                                                                                                             Page 2 of 13  
  
  
I. 
Background 
 
2. The Transaction was given effect pursuant to the execution of a Securities Subscription 
Agreement and a Shareholders Agreement (SHA) on 7th November 2020 and was closed on 
9th December 2020.  Pursuant to the Transaction, GS AIF gained certain rights in relation to 
reserved matters (Reserved Matter Rights) under the SHA and some of such rights were to 
be exercised with the prior written consent of the Investor Majority (as defined in the SHA) 
and some of such other rights were to be exercised with the prior written consent of all the 
Investors (as defined in the SHA). Further, GS AIF gained certain information rights 
(Information Rights) and access rights (Access Rights) under the SHA. The Information 
Rights allow GS AIF access to: (a) certified true copies of minutes of 
board/committee/shareholder meetings with related records after such a meeting has 
occurred (Minutes Right), and (b) information relating to any direct change in certain 
shareholdings, access to certified true copies of the latest capitalization table of Biocon, etc. 
The Access Rights allow GS AIF to access the premises and personnel of Biocon during 
normal business hours, upon providing a reasonable prior written notice. 
 
3. GS AIF is an investment scheme under the Goldman Sachs India Alternative Investment 
Trust registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) under the SEBI 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 (AIF Regulations). As stated, the primary 
objective of GS AIF is to carry out investment activities which are permissible for a Category 
II AIF under the AIF Regulations.  
 
4. Biocon is a subsidiary of Biocon Limited. It has research and development centres in 
Bengaluru and Chennai, with manufacturing facilities in Bengaluru and Malaysia for 
monoclonal antibodies, recombinant proteins, and insulins.  
 
5. The Commission observed that the Transaction was not notified and was consummated prior 
to the approval of the Commission. Subsequently, in this regard, a letter dated 4th February 
2022 was issued under Section 36(4) of the Act to GS for furnishing of information and 

  
                                         
  
                                                                                                             Page 3 of 13  
  
  
documents relating to the Transaction in order to assess whether further proceeding is 
required under Section 20(1) and/or Section 43A of the Act (First Letter).  
 
6. GS filed its response to the First Letter on 24th February 2022 (First Response). As the 
information provided in the First Response was incomplete in certain aspects, another letter 
dated 29th June 2022 was issued to GS (Second Letter) to provide complete information. 
The response to the Second Letter was filed by GS on 16th August 2022 (Second Response). 
In addition, GS provided certain additional clarifications regarding the Second Response on 
21st September 2022 (Clarification) [hereinafter, First Response, Second Response, and 
Clarification are collectively referred to as the ‘Response’). 
 
II. 
Initiation of proceedings under Section 43A of the Act 
 
7. In its meeting held on 18th May 2023, the Commission considered the Response and observed 
that the Minutes Right is a right which is not available to an ordinary shareholder. The 
Commission noted that such an arrangement in substance may enable the provision of 
confidential and commercially sensitive information and strategic information of Biocon to 
GS. The Commission further noted that other rights viz., the Access Rights and Reserved 
Matter Rights appear to indicate that the Transaction is strategic in nature and not in the 
ordinary course of business or made solely as an investment. Considering the same, the 
Commission observed that the Transaction may not be covered under Item 1 of Schedule 1 
(Item 1 Provision) of the Competition Commission of India (Procedure in regard to the 
transaction of business relating to combinations) Regulation, 2011 (Combination 
Regulations) and ought to have been notified in terms of Section 6(2) of the Act. 
 
8. Therefore, the Commission was of the prima facie view that the Transaction was given effect 
without giving notice to the Commission, thereby leading to contravention of Section 6(2) of 
the Act. Accordingly, the Commission issued a Show Cause Notice (SCN) under Regulation 
48 of the Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009 read with Section 
43A of the Act to GS on 25th May 2023 directing GS to show cause, in writing, as to why 

  
                                         
  
                                                                                                             Page 4 of 13  
  
  
penalty should not be imposed upon it, in terms of Section 43A of the Act for failure to file 
notice under Section 6(2) of the Act.  
 
9. GS filed the response to the SCN on 29th June 2023 after seeking an extension of time, along 
with a request for an oral hearing in the matter (Response to SCN). 
 
10. The Commission heard GS at length on 23rd July 2024 and, after considering the request of 
GS, granted liberty to GS to furnish written arguments/ submissions latest by 30th July 2024. 
Accordingly, GS submitted written arguments on 30th July 2024.  
 
III. 
Submissions of GS 
 
Transaction was solely as an investment 
 
11. Transaction was solely for investment purposes and in GS AIF’s ordinary course of business, 
with the objective of obtaining a return on its investment without any underlying strategic 
intent towards participating in the affairs and management of Biocon Biologics and therefore, 
it benefitted from Item 1 Provision.  
 
12.  Item 1 Provision provides an exemption for minority acquisitions, if all the following 
conditions are satisfied:  
 
Condition 1: The acquisition does not entitle the acquirer to hold 25% or more of the total 
shares (on a fully diluted basis) or voting rights of the target enterprise, whether directly or 
indirectly (Shareholding Condition); and  
Condition 2: The acquisition does not lead to an acquisition of control (including negative or 
joint control), voting arrangements, de facto control, or otherwise (Control Condition); and  
Condition 3: The acquisition is solely as an investment (SIP Condition) or in the ordinary 
course of business of the acquirer (OCB Condition). 
 

  
                                         
  
                                                                                                             Page 5 of 13  
  
  
13. Further, it was stated that the explanation to the Item 1 Provision clarifies that the acquisition 
of less than 10% of total shares/voting rights shall be treated as being “solely as an 
investment” if the acquirer: (a) has the ability to exercise only such rights that are exercisable 
by the ordinary shareholders of the enterprise whose shares or voting rights are being 
acquired to the extent of their respective shareholding (Rights Condition), (b) is not a 
member of the board of directors of the target nor has the right to nominate such members in 
future (Board Condition), and (c) does not intend to participate in the management or affairs 
of the target (Participation Condition) [collectively, the Explanation].  
 
14. In this backdrop, it was stated that: 
 
i. 
the Transaction satisfied the Shareholding Condition as the shareholding underlying 
the OCDs amount to less than 10 percent of the share capital of Biocon. 
ii. 
the Transaction satisfied the Control Condition as the limited rights acquired by GS 
AIF, as a shareholder, under the SHA, do not confer any “control” or “material 
influence” on the day-to-day management, or affairs, of Biocon and that the rights 
held by GS AIF are merely in the nature of minority shareholder investment 
protection rights. 
iii. 
the Transaction satisfied the SIP Condition in terms of the Explanation. As submitted, 
GS AIF acquired less than 10% of Biocon and the acquisition did not involve any 
right to appoint (or any right to nominate in the future) a member/observer on the 
board of directors of Biocon Biologics. Further, GS AIF had no intention to 
participate, and has not participated in the management or affairs of Biocon 
Biologics. Therefore, the Board Condition and the Participation Condition have been 
met. As regards the Rights Condition, further submissions were made as detailed 
hereunder. 
 
15. The Rights Condition states that acquisition is deemed as solely as an investment if the 
acquirer “has ability to exercise only such rights that are exercisable by the ordinary 
shareholders of the enterprise whose shares or voting rights are being acquired to the extent 
of their respective shareholding”. In this regard, it is stated that these rights have to be viewed 

  
                                         
  
                                                                                                             Page 6 of 13  
  
  
in the context of existing rights in the relevant enterprise i.e., the target under consideration, 
and cannot be equated with rights available to ordinary shareholders in a listed company. 
With this perspective, it has been submitted that at the time of the Transaction, there were 
only three types of shareholders/stakeholders in Biocon viz., promoters, Investors, and 
individuals. Accordingly, Biocon did not have any ‘ordinary’ shareholders per se as 
understood in the context of say, a public listed company. Further, it has been stated that the 
Minutes Right and the Access Right are available to all of the Investors in Biocon Biologics 
and not just to GS AIF and that these rights existed for  other investors in Biocon Biologics 
prior to the Transaction and continued to exist post the Transaction and these were granted 
to GS AIF simply as a result of these rights being available to the other investors. 
 
Broader Item 1 Provision applies to the Transaction 
 
16. As submitted, if the Explanation is not available, the broader Item 1 Provision would still 
apply to the facts at hand. In this regard, a reference was also made to the Frequently Asked 
Questions (FAQs) published by the Commission in September 2022 which note: 
“Explanation to Item 1 provides that the acquisition of less than 10% of the total shares or 
voting rights of an enterprise shall be treated solely as an investment if certain conditions 
are satisfied. However, it does not presume the opposite, i.e., the explanation does not 
presume that acquisition in excess of 10% of share capital of any target cannot qualify solely 
as an investment…” (emphasis added). 
 
Existence of minority investor protection rights cannot affect the availability of the benefit of 
Item 1 Provision 
 
17. As submitted, the availability of minority investment protection rights cannot take away the 
benefit of the Item 1 Exemption. As stated, limiting the benefit of Item 1 Provision would 
lead to drastic results and be antithetical to the established practice of the Commission and 
its jurisprudence. The same would be onerous and contrary to the ease of doing business as 
a shareholder/investor who is investing hundreds and is simply getting rights which allow it 
to protect its minority investment (without any control or material influence on the day-to-

  
                                         
  
                                                                                                             Page 7 of 13  
  
  
day or material functioning of the target) has to notify and seek a prior approval. The same 
would be against the intention of the Commission in framing the Combination Regulations 
as the statutory rights are the baseline of rights which could be available to a shareholder, 
and it follows that a minority investor investing a certain high quantum of money would 
naturally have certain proportionate rights to protect any value depletion. Further, as stated, 
given the suspensory nature of the merger control regime in India, it will add significantly to 
the administrative costs of transactions (including but not limited to costs of the filing, legal 
and financing costs involved and time cost of obtaining approvals) without any strong 
economic rationale or theory of harm being explained or guidance provided.  
 
Decisional Practice 
 
18. GS has made a reference to the Commission’s decisional practice and stated that the 
Commission had not penalised any investor for investing via OCDs with such rights (where 
the right to appoint a board member/observer has also not been granted) and that the 
Commission has interpreted “solely as an investment”, as a passive investment where the 
investor does not intend to be involved in the formulation or determination of the day-to-day 
business decisions of the target. 
 
Safeguards to prevent exchange of confidential information 
 
19. It has been stated that any investor/lender will need access to certain commercially sensitive 
information to evaluate whether funds being invested in a company are being utilized as per 
the agreed upon commercial purposes and to ensure their invested capital is otherwise 
protected. Therefore, like every other Investor, GS AIF would also need access to certain 
financial information of Biocon to periodically assess the valuation of the debt/investment as 
well as the proposed utilization of the funds being provided by GS AIF to Biocon. However, 
in this regard, it has been stated that GS AIF is in the business of investing in accordance 
with a defined investment policy for the benefit of its investors and in addition to the general 
confidentiality obligations applicable to GS AIF under the AIF Regulations by virtue of being 
a registered AIF, GS AIF is also bound by confidentiality provisions under the SHA.  

  
                                         
  
                                                                                                             Page 8 of 13  
  
  
20. Further reference has been made to the arrangement agreed as per the SHA. As submitted, 
the SHA specifically states that during the term of the SHA and for a period of three years 
thereafter, recipients of the information may not use confidential information for a purpose 
other than the performance of its obligations under the agreement or another transaction 
document, may not disclose confidential information to a person (except with prior written 
consent) and must make every reasonable effort to prevent the misuse or unauthorized 
disclosure of confidential information.  
 
21. It has been stated that the intent of the Commission is to address the issue of common 
minority shareholdings in competing enterprises or vertical enterprises primarily due to 
concerns of information sharing and the likelihood of collusion between such enterprises. 
However, in the current fact pattern, while an Investor is allowed to disclose confidential 
information to its affiliates, the definition of affiliates (as per the SHA) specifically excludes 
any portfolio company or entity in which the said Investor holds an investment. In this 
backdrop, it has been stated that GS AIF is specifically barred from sharing any confidential 
information of Biocon with its other portfolio companies. Further, it has been clarified that 
at the time of the closing of the Transaction, GS AIF did not directly or indirectly have 
investments in any company in India that was engaged in the same or a similar line of 
business as Biocon.  
 
Transaction is made in ordinary course of business 
 
22. Apart from submissions on the Transaction being solely as an investment, it has been stated 
that the Transaction also satisfies the test of being in ordinary course of business. Referring 
to the Commission’s practice and FAQs, it has been stated that the term “ordinary course of 
business” is meant to refer to transactions which are “frequent, routine and usual”. In the 
context of the Transaction, it has been stated that: (a) GS AIF routinely provides funding to 
numerous companies in India; (b) making investments where a good opportunity to generate 
return arises, is in the ordinary course of business for GS AIF; (c) such arrangements are 
frequent and repetitive for GS AIF; (d) the activities undertaken by Biocon do not correlate 
with the core business operations or activities of GS AIF; and (e) Biocon Biologics has raised 

  
                                         
  
                                                                                                             Page 9 of 13  
  
  
money from several similarly situated lenders/investors, each of whom has a similar set of 
rights as GS AIF, seeing an opportunity to generate a return from their investment in the 
company. Accordingly, it has been submitted that the Transaction qualifies for being an 
ordinary course of business transaction as well. 
 
23. Notwithstanding the aforesaid submissions, GS submitted that if the Commission still 
considers that in order to alleviate its concerns and for it to close the present case without 
penalty, it would need GS AIF to undertake to give up and not exercise the Minutes Right 
and Access Right of the SHA, then GS AIF gives such an undertaking. 
 
IV. 
Observations and Findings of the Commission 
 
24. First and foremost, it may be noted that the Act defines shares as, “…shares in the share 
capital of a company carrying voting rights and includes— (i) any security which entitles the 
holder to receive shares with voting rights; (ii) stock except where a distinction between 
stock and share is expressed or implied;” Thus, the convertible securities constitute shares 
and are treated accordingly. Thus, before going into the specific submissions of GS on the 
aspect of notification of Transaction, it is clarified that there is no separate framework for 
OCDs and thus the fact that GS has acquired OCDs is irrelevant to assessment. 
 
25. The issue of whether the Transaction was required to be notified or not is primarily the 
subject matter of Item 1 Provision. As stated above, the applicability of Item I Provision 
requires a transaction to satisfy the Shareholding Condition and Control Condition and SIP 
Condition or OCB Condition. In this regard, given the information on record and 
observations in the SCN, the Transaction satisfies the Shareholding Condition and Control 
Condition and those aspects do not require any assessment or findings. The key aspect 
relevant for determining the notification requirement of the Transaction is the SIP Condition 
and OCB Condition and thus, the Transaction has been assessed accordingly. 
 
 
 

  
                                         
  
                                                                                                             Page 10 of 13  
  
  
Whether the Transaction satisfies the SIP Condition? 
 
 
 
26. In this regard, GS has firstly made submissions on the construct of Transaction in terms of 
various conditions provided in the Explanation and on applicability of Item 1 Provision even 
if the Explanation is not available.  
 
27. In this regard, the Commission observed that Item 1 Provision is always applied holistically. 
If the Explanation were to be considered disjointed with the broader Item 1 Provision, then 
there was no need for any analysis to conclude that the Transaction does not satisfy SIP 
Condition. The rights forming part of the subject matter definitely go beyond the rights of 
ordinary shareholders and therefore the very fact that these rights are being examined for 
being consistent with the SIP Condition exemplifies that the Commission considers Item 1 
Provision holistically. The nature of rights acquired is indeed relevant to determination of 
need for a transaction to be notified or not and this assessment of nature of right harmonises 
the overall Item 1 Provision including the Explanation as the focus is the assessment of any 
transaction being strategic or not.  
 
28. Another issue which has been raised by GS is that the Rights Condition needs to be applied 
in the context of existing rights of investors in the relevant enterprise i.e., the target under 
consideration and cannot be equated with rights available to ordinary shareholders in a listed 
company. The interpretation of Rights Condition as given by GS is not tenable as the same 
potentially implies that if any enterprise grants control conferring rights/strategic rights to a 
class or classes of investors, the same should be considered as ordinary rights not considering 
the nature of rights but only because these rights have been granted to all investors or a sub-
set of investors. Item 1 Provision is premised on ensuring assessment of transactions where 
an investor acquires rights which can potentially have impact on competition or operational 
dynamics of the target and therefore the only relevant aspect is the nature or substance of the 
underlying ‘right’. In this backdrop of overall Item 1 Provision including the Explanation 
and the relevant yardstick for evaluation of rights of ordinary shareholders, the Transaction 
has been assessed for its compliance with Item 1 Provision. 
 

  
                                         
  
                                                                                                             Page 11 of 13  
  
  
29. The Commission observed that Minutes Right and Access Right goes beyond the rights of 
ordinary shareholders both in terms of form and substance. With access to Minutes Right, 
GS AIF gains privileged access to all commercially sensitive information discussed and 
deliberated upon during the Board meetings of Biocon. This information could include 
strategic plans, financial data, proprietary technology, business forecasts, and other 
confidential matters crucial to the competitive advantage and market position of the entities 
involved. In form, such access is not allowed to the ‘ordinary shareholders’ and in substance, 
such access is indicative of GS considering the Transaction as strategic. Further, while GS 
has made a reference to the Commission’s decisional practice and stated that the Commission 
had not penalised any investor for investing with such rights (where the right to appoint a 
board member/observer has also not been granted), it is important to note that Minutes Right 
also confers potential access to commercially sensitive information which, inter alia, is the 
substantive underlying concern of Item 1 Provision.  
 
30. The Commission also considered submissions of GS AIF on the safeguards to prevent the 
exchange of any confidential information obtained with regard to both the AIF Regulations 
in general and the SHA. In this regard, it is important to note that the key issue here is the 
notifiability of a transaction, and notifiability criteria have to be objective and cannot be 
applied considering the specificities of the legal framework applicable to a set of firms or 
their inter se arrangements. Such specificities may be relevant to the assessment of a 
transaction but not the notifiability and therefore the submissions on safeguards are not 
relevant to the proceedings. 
 
Whether the Transaction satisfies the OCB Condition? 
 
31. GS has submitted that the Transaction also satisfies the test of being in ordinary course of 
business considering that the activities of GS AIF of providing funding, making investments 
etc. are “frequent, routine and usual”. In this regard, it may be noted that in context of 
transactions involving shares, the real test for determination of the activity being “frequent, 
routine and usual” is whether a transaction has been done solely with the intent to get 

  
                                         
  
                                                                                                             Page 12 of 13  
  
  
benefited from short term price movement of securities. All these issues need to be 
considered in light of the facts of a transaction.  
 
32. Considering the facts of the impugned Transaction, the Commission observed that GS 
acquired OCDs in 2020 and the final maturity date was fixed as 9th January 2026 which 
implies a significant holding period. Further, GS AIF had a right to convert the OCDs into 
equity shares at any time prior to the final maturity date (Conversion Right). The acquisition 
of Conversion Right allows GS to weigh whether to exit the Target on final maturity date or 
to convert the debentures into shares and stay invested. Furthermore, GS acquired certain 
Reserved Matter Rights, Information Rights, etc. All these aspects of the Transaction point 
to the fact that the Transaction has not been made with an intent of benefiting from short 
term price movements. The “frequent, routine and usual” test for the ordinary course of 
business transactions is not limited to the execution of transactions but also weighs the 
intended span or time period of investment and the agreed role as an investor. The ordinary 
course of business transactions are the transactions where the intended/actual span of 
investment is short, and the role of an investor is limited to that of an ordinary shareholder 
and the investor shall have no rights at all apart from beneficial rights attached to shares and 
voting rights. Any transaction which is made with the intent of remaining invested for a 
relatively longer period and involves the acquisition of any additional rights (compared to 
the rights of an ordinary shareholder) cannot be considered as in ordinary course of business. 
The competition dynamics are influenced by the substance of arrangements between the 
parties and not the form of their organization. The regulatory framework is agnostic to the 
form of an organization and therefore the same is applicable to all enterprises in equal 
measure.  
  
33. Basis the aforesaid, the Commission is of the opinion that the Transaction was notifiable and 
by consummating the same without filing a notice under Section 6(2) of the Act, GS is liable 
to penalty under Section 43A of the Act. Section 43A of the Act provides that if any person 
or enterprise fails to give notice to the Commission under Section 6(2) of the Act, the 
Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a penalty which may extend to 1% of 
the total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, of such a combination. Thus, Section 

  
                                         
  
                                                                                                             Page 13 of 13  
  
  
43A of the Act empowers the Commission to determine the appropriate amount of penalty 
in a matter, subject to the maximum of 1% of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is 
higher.  
 
34. Considering the facts and circumstances of the instant matter, the conduct of GS during the 
proceedings, the Commission considers it appropriate to impose a penalty of INR 40,00,000 
(Rupees Forty Lakhs Only) on GS, which is directed to pay the penalty within 60 days from 
the date of receipt of this order.  
 
35. It is made clear that nothing used in this order shall be deemed to be confidential or deemed 
to have been granted confidentiality, as the same has been used for the purposes of the Act 
in terms of the provisions contained in Section 57 thereof. 
 
36. The Secretary is directed to communicate to GS accordingly.  
 
 
 
