 
 Page 1 of 16 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
Ref. No. M&A/03/2021/03/CD 
 
23rd August 2023 
 
In re: Proceedings against Bharti Airtel Limited and Lion Meadow Investment 
Limited under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
CORAM:  
 
Ms. Ravneet Kaur  
Chairperson 
 
Ms. Sangeeta Verma 
Member 
 
Mr. Bhagwant Singh Bishnoi 
Member 
 
Appearances during the hearing  
For Bharti Airtel Limited:  
 
 
 
 
 
For Lion Meadow Investment 
Limited: 
Mr. Rajshekhar Rao, Senior Advocate with Ms. 
Hemangini Dadwal, Mr. Nitin Nair, Ms. Ruchi 
Khanna, Ms. Shivangi Pradhan, Mr. Areeb 
Amanullah, Advocates along with Ms. Shraddha Jha, 
representative of Bharti Airtel Limited 
 
Mr. Arun Kathpalia, Senior Advocate with Mr. 
Aditya Dhupar, Mr. Gaurav Bansal, Mr. Shivam Jha, 
Mr. Varun Thakur, Mr. Deepanshu Poddar, 
Advocates 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 2 of 16 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
1. This order shall dispose of the proceedings against Bharti Airtel Limited (‘BAL’) and Lion 
Meadow Investment Limited (‘LMIL’) under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 
(‘Act’) in relation to acquisition of 20% shareholding in Bharti Telemedia Limited 
(‘BTL’/‘Target’) by BAL from LMIL (‘Step 1’) and acquisition of 0.664% shares in BAL 
by LMIL (‘Step 2’) (Hereinafter, Step 1 and Step 2 are collectively referred to as the 
‘Transaction’ and BAL and LMIL are collectively referred to as ‘Parties’). 
 
Background 
 
2. The Transaction was given effect pursuant to the execution of an Investment Agreement 
dated 17th February 2021 between LMIL, BAL and BTL. It was consummated on 22nd 
March 2021. 
 
3. BAL is a public listed company incorporated under the laws of India and engaged in the 
business of providing telecommunication services. BTL is a public unlisted company 
incorporated under the laws of India and a subsidiary of BAL. BTL is engaged in the 
business of distributing multi-channel television programs directly to subscriber premises 
by using satellite systems in India. The principal activities of BTL consist of setting up, 
operating and maintaining Direct-to-Home (‘DTH’) Cable through digital and other modes 
of broadcasting service and includes broadcasting of interactive and personalised content 
within India. 
 
4. LMIL is a private limited company incorporated under the laws of Mauritius and is 
primarily engaged in investment holding activities. LMIL is an affiliate of Warburg Pincus 
LLC (‘Warburg Pincus’). Warburg Pincus is a member-owned private equity firm 
headquartered in New York, United States of America and acts as a manager to certain 
private equity funds. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 3 of 16 
 
5. The Commission observed that the Transaction was not notified and was consummated 
prior to the approval of the Commission. Subsequently, a letter dated 3rd March 2022 was 
issued under Section 36(4) of the Act to BAL and Warburg Pincus (‘First Letter’) directing 
them to furnish information and documents regarding the Transaction in order to assess 
whether further proceeding is required under Section 20(1) and/or Section 43A of the Act.  
 
6. BAL filed its response to the First Letter dated 30th March 2022 and LMIL filed its response 
to the First Letter dated 31st March 2022 (Hereinafter, both responses are collectively 
referred to as ‘First Responses’). As the information provided in the First Responses was 
incomplete in certain aspects, another letter dated 5th May 2022 was issued to BAL and 
LMIL (‘Second Letter’) to provide complete information. The responses to the Second 
Letter were filed by both BAL and LMIL on 19th May 2022 (Hereinafter, both responses 
are collectively referred to as ‘Second Responses’) [Hereinafter, First Letter and Second 
Letter are collectively referred to as ‘Letters’, and First Responses and Second Responses 
are collectively referred to as ‘Responses to the Letters’]. 
 
Initiation of proceedings under Section 43A of the Act 
 
7. In its meeting held on 25th July 2022, the Commission considered the Responses to the 
Letters. The Commission, inter alia, observed that BAL held 80% shareholding of BTL 
and LMIL held the remaining 20% shareholding in BTL along with various rights in BTL. 
Considering the rights available to LMIL in the Target prior to the Transaction, it appeared 
that BAL did not have sole control prior to the Transaction and therefore, benefit under 
Item 2 of Schedule 1 (‘Item 2 Provision’) of the Competition Commission of India 
(Procedure in regard to the transaction of business relating to combinations) Regulation, 
2011 (‘Combination Regulations’) was not available to Step 1 of the Transaction. Step 2 
of the Transaction was part consideration paid for Step 1 and hence, LMIL was required to 
notify under Regulation 9(4) of the Combination Regulations. In view of the foregoing, the 
Commission was of the prima facie view that Step 1 of the Transaction could not avail 
benefit under Item 2 Provision and Step 2 of the Transaction being interconnected to Step 
1, ought to have been notified along with Step 1 as a composite notice and thus, cannot, 

 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 4 of 16 
 
avail the benefit under Item 1 of Schedule 1 of Combination Regulations (‘Item 1 
Provision’).  
 
8. Therefore, the Commission was of the prima facie view that the Transaction was given 
effect without giving notice to the Commission, thereby leading to contravention of sub-
section (2) and (2A) of Section 6 of the Act. Accordingly, the Commission issued a Show 
Cause Notice (‘SCN’) under Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India 
(General) Regulations, 2009 read with Section 43A of the Act on 4th August 2022. 
 
9. LMIL and BAL filed response to the SCN dated 16th September 2022 and 20th September 
2022, respectively, after seeking extension of time, along with a request for oral hearing in 
the matter. (Hereinafter, both aforementioned responses, are collectively referred to as 
‘Responses to SCN’). 
 
10. The Commission heard BAL and LMIL at length on 11th July 2023 and after considering  
request of the Parties, the Commission granted liberty to the Parties to furnish their written 
arguments/ submissions latest by 25th July 2023. Accordingly, BAL and LMIL submitted 
their written arguments on 25th July 2023. 
 
Submissions of BAL 
 
I. Step 1 of the Transaction benefitted from Item 2 Provision 
 
11. Benefit under Item 2 Provision: BAL submitted that it had a majority shareholding of 80% 
in BTL prior to the Transaction and therefore, the Transaction meets the first test of the 
benefit under Item 2 Provision. Further, the exception to the benefit under Item 2 Provision 
does not apply to the Transaction as there is no transfer from joint to sole control. As per 
the submissions of BAL, the rights acquired by LMIL in BTL do not qualify as ‘material 
influence’, let alone joint control. Accordingly, the acquisition of shares by LMIL in BTL 
did not and cannot be said to have resulted in acquisition of joint control at the time of the 
Transaction as there was no transfer from joint to sole control by BAL in BTL. 

 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 5 of 16 
 
 
12. The test for benefit under Item 2 is that of joint control, not material influence: LMIL 
could have ‘joint control’ with BAL, only when it had rights similar to BAL, that enabled 
it to jointly control the affairs and management of BTL. In the present case, LMIL did not 
have any rights that empowered it to materially influence, in any manner, the affairs, 
management or operations of BTL.  
 
13. The term ‘control’ has been defined under the Explanation (a) to Section 5 of the 
Competition Act to include: controlling the affairs or management by (i) one or more 
enterprises or groups over another enterprise or group; or (ii) one or more groups, either 
jointly or solely, over another group or enterprise. In other words, an entity must acquire 
those rights that enable it to exercise control, which at the lowest level includes material 
influence, over the management and affairs, i.e., operations of the business. Moreover, joint 
control suggests that not just one entity but two or more entities together, exercise the same 
or, at least, a similar set of rights over the target. It is not sufficient, for joint control to exist, 
for an investor to merely hold necessary rights to protect its investment over a few items. 
The rights must enable it to jointly control the operations, affairs and management of the 
business. 
 
14. Joint control is a significantly higher threshold than material influence: It has been 
submitted that the Commission has identified three categories of control:  
a) De jure control: De jure control or controlling interest means a shareholding conferring 
more than 50% of the voting rights of an enterprise. LMIL did not have de jure control 
over BTL, as it did not have more than 50% of the voting rights of BTL, either directly 
or indirectly, through its group entities.  
b) De facto control: De facto control implies a situation where an enterprise holds less than 
the majority of the voting rights, but in practice, controls more than half of the votes 
actually cast at a meeting. LMIL did not have any de facto control over BTL. 
c) Material influence: Material influence is the lowest level of control. Even here, it is 
imperative, that the rights confer material influence over the day-to-day operations and 
management of the business under explanation (c) to Section 5 of the Competition Act.  

 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 6 of 16 
 
 
15. At the outset, it is clarified that the test of material influence is inapplicable to the Item 2 
Provision. In order for the Item 2 Provision to be inapplicable, the shareholding and rights 
held by LMIL would need to have conferred upon it ‘joint control’ with BAL over BTL – 
which is not the case here. LMIL did not exercise even material influence over BTL. The 
test of joint control has a higher threshold as compared to that of material influence. 
 
16. No ‘transfer’ from joint to sole control; BAL was in sole control before the Transaction 
and remains in sole control of BTL after the Transaction: The Transaction did not change, 
in any manner, the management of BTL or operations whether strategic or day-to-day or 
governance or decision-making of BTL. All decision-making power in relation to BTL 
remained with BAL before and after the Transaction. Accordingly, as per the statutory 
framework of the Act and the Commission’s own decisional practice, LMIL cannot be said 
to have exercised joint control over BTL. Therefore, the Transaction qualifies for Item 2 
and/or Item 8 provisions. The Transaction involves the exit of a financial investor, upon 
recouping its investment, with the only other existing shareholder acquiring the minority 
shares of the existing investor. It does not result in any change in the business operations 
of BTL. 
 
II. Rights of LMIL in BTL prior to the Transaction 
 
17. LMIL’s Rights in BTL are investor protection rights and do not confer any degree of 
material influence, much less joint control: Prior to the Transaction, LMIL had only a 
very limited set of investor protection rights, which did not allow LMIL to participate in 
the management and affairs of BTL. Investor protection rights pertain to matters that may 
substantially affect the underlying value of the investment made by LMIL. None of the 
LMIL’s investor protection rights relate to any activities of the Target undertaken in its 
day-to-day management or business operations or the policy making process. Further, 
wherever necessary, appropriate monetary thresholds have also been provided to ensure 
that ordinary commercial operations and decisions of the Target are not subject to LMIL’s 
rights. 

 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 7 of 16 
 
 
18. BAL had the right to appoint 5 out of 6 directors on the Board of BTL. In addition, BAL 
had the ability to pass ordinary and special resolutions, enjoyed affirmative voting rights 
and by virtue of these rights, BAL controlled all the affairs of BTL since it was in a position 
to pass all special resolutions. The directors appointed by BAL could pass resolutions 
relating to day-to-day operations and management of the business of the Target, even 
without the participation of, and irrespective of any dissent from the director appointed by 
LMIL before the Transaction. 
 
19. Entire bouquet of rights to be examined to determine control: It has been submitted that 
the Commission has examined the rights in a target company and their bearing on the 
strategic commercial decisions of the target enterprise, while ascertaining whether an 
enterprise/ group has acquired control over another enterprise/ group. Certain rights that 
have been considered as conferring control by the Commission include the right to appoint 
directors on the board of target coupled with veto rights over key strategic items: (i) 
approval of the business plan; (ii) approval of budget; (iii) discontinuation of an existing 
line or commencement of a new line of business (iv) appointment or removal of key 
managerial personnel (‘KMP’) and senior management etc. (collectively referred to as 
‘Strategic Rights’). In its decisional practice, the CCI has not considered a bundle of rights 
as control conferring unless one or more of such rights is/are Strategic Rights. Such rights 
allow an investor to participate in day-to-day management and affairs of the business.  
 
20. The Commission has also assessed other veto rights (along with a right to appoint a director) 
such as (a) right to amend to charter documents; (b) right to change the capital structure of 
the company; (c) reorganization of business; (d) right to amend dividend policy; and (e) 
right to appoint auditors, to confer control only when accompanied by the control 
conferring rights. Investor protection rights on their own cannot be said to be control 
conferring. Such rights are those that any investor acquires to be able to protect the value 
of their investment such as information rights, anti-dilution rights and veto over charter 
documents and change in capital structure that may adversely impact their financial 

 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 8 of 16 
 
investment. Such rights are necessary to protect the sizable investments made by such 
investors.  
 
21. LMIL’s investment in BTL was merely in the nature of a pure financial investment: The 
underlying intent of this Transaction is not strategic in nature or to gain control of BTL. 
The rights that LMIL ceded on its exit of its investment in BAL was only for the limited 
purpose of protecting its investment. Where an investor has significant investment of this 
nature, then having basic access to key performance indicators of the company in addition 
to financial statements are critical for an investor to be assured of the protection of its 
investment – particularly when the sole purpose of the investment is to be profitable on 
exit. This cannot be said to confer material influence over a company, much less joint 
control.  
 
Submissions of LMIL 
 
I. Step 2 of the Transaction benefitted from the Item 1 Provision 
 
22. It is submitted that, in accordance with the Item 1 Provision and its Explanation, there are 
three essential conditions for availing its benefit: (a) the acquisition does not entitle the 
acquirer to hold 25% or more of the total shares or voting rights of the target enterprise; (b) 
the acquisition is made in the ordinary course of business or solely as an investment; and 
(c) the acquisition does not lead to an acquisition of control.  
 
23. Further, an acquisition is deemed as being made solely as an investment if (a) the 
acquisition is of less than 10% of the total shares or voting rights of the target enterprise; 
(b) the acquirer has the ability to exercise only such rights that are exercisable by the 
ordinary shareholders of the target enterprise to the extent of their respective shareholding; 
(c) the acquirer is not a member of the board of directors of the target enterprise and does 
not have the right or intention to nominate one; and (d) the acquirer does not intend to 
participate in the affairs and management of the target enterprise and does not have the 
right or intention to nominate one.  

 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 9 of 16 
 
 
24. It is submitted that Step 2 of the Transaction satisfied each of the above-mentioned 
conditions of the Explanation to the Item 1 Provision as LMIL acquired less than 25% 
shares in BAL and did not secure any rights over and above those conferred upon ordinary 
shareholders.  
 
II. Step 1 of the Transaction benefitted from Item 2 Provision 
 
25. BAL exercised sole control over BTL prior to the BAL Acquisition: The test of joint 
control is significantly different from the test of a ‘lower degree of control’, which the 
Commission considers to be a part of ‘material influence’ and has applied in the SCN. In 
this regard, it is submitted that for Item 2 Provision not to apply, the acquirer should move 
from ‘joint’ control to ‘sole’ control. It is submitted that LMIL did not exercise ‘joint 
control’ and in fact, did not exercise even material influence over BTL. It was BAL which 
was in sole control of BTL prior to, as well as post the Transaction.  
 
26. LMIL has also mentioned that the Commission has considered the following three 
categories of control: de jure control, de facto control and material influence, similar to the 
arguments advanced by BAL. It is submitted that private equity or financial investors 
typically secure contractual rights to be able to protect the value of their investment (such 
as exit rights, information rights, anti-dilution rights and veto over matters that may 
adversely impact their financial investment). Such rights are necessary to protect the sizable 
investments made by such investors. While interpreting control exercised by financial 
investors, the Commission has in its decisional practice carefully evaluated (a) investor 
protection rights not amounting to control; and (b) rights that would allow a private equity 
player the ability to participate in the strategic matters of the company.  
 
27. LMIL never exercised any control over the management and affairs of BTL. To the 
contrary, BAL was in sole control over the business affairs of BTL prior to and post the 
BAL acquisition. BAL had the right to and had in fact appointed the majority of the board 
of BTL. Accordingly, only BAL had the ability to approve or reject any strategic 

 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 10 of 16 
 
commercial decision of BTL, irrespective of the view of LIML’s director. LMIL’s right to 
appoint one non-executive director must not be considered as LMIL exercising any degree 
of control and especially, joint control over BTL. It has been submitted that BAL had the 
sole power to approve ordinary as well as special resolutions of BTL. Therefore, every 
major business decision of BTL that would typically be taken through passing of 
ordinary/special resolutions was undertaken by BAL and would not have required consent 
of LMIL.  
 
28. In light of the above submissions, it is submitted that LMIL never exercised any control 
over the management and affairs of BTL. To the contrary, BAL was in sole control over 
the business affairs of BTL prior to and post the BAL Acquisition. The intention behind 
LMIL’s investment in BTL was for LMIL to make financial gains on its investment and 
thereafter exit BTL and not exercise any control over BTL. 
 
III. Obligation to notify the Transaction 
 
29. Given that the Step 2 of the Transaction benefitted from the minority acquisition exemption 
(i.e., Item 1 Provision) and given that Step 1 of the Transaction benefitted from the Item 2 
Provision, a composite merger filing covering the Step 1 and Step 2 of the Transaction was 
not required.  
 
Observations and Findings of the Commission 
 
30. Section 5 of the Act states that acquisition of one or more enterprises by one or more person 
or merger or amalgamation of enterprises, which exceeds the threshold prescribed therein 
shall be a combination for the purposes of the Act. The thresholds are specified in the Act 
in terms of assets or turnover in India and abroad. Further, Section 6(2) of the Act provides 
that the parties proposing to enter into a combination shall give a notice to the Commission 
and, as per Section 6(2A) of the Act, no combination shall come into effect until 210 days 
have passed from the day on which the notice has been given to the Commission under 

 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 11 of 16 
 
Section 6(2) or the Commission has passed orders under Section 31 of the Act, whichever 
is earlier. 
 
31. The Combination Regulations provides the benefit of normally not filing a notice under 
Section 6(2) of the Act to certain categories of combinations (as defined under Section 5 of 
the Act) that are ordinarily not likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition 
in India. Such categories are provided under Schedule I of the Combination Regulations.  
 
32. The Commission notes the Item 2 Provision of Schedule I, which reads as follows:  
 
“An acquisition of shares or voting rights, referred to in sub-clause (i) or sub-clause (ii) of 
clause (a) of Section 5 of the Act, where the acquirer, prior to the acquisition, has 50% or 
more shares or voting rights in the enterprise whose shares or voting rights are being 
acquired, except in the cases where the transaction results in transfer from joint control to 
sole control”. 
 
33. From the plain reading of the Item 2 Provision, it is clear that the benefit of this provision 
is not available in instances where the transaction results in a transfer from joint control to 
sole control. The objective of this provision is to distinguish and not to provide the benefit 
to transactions involving change in control from joint to sole, where the acquirer, prior to 
the acquisition, has 50% or more shares or voting rights in the enterprise whose shares or 
voting rights are being acquired. 
 
34. The core issue for determination in the instant case is whether the Transaction resulted in 
transfer from joint control to sole control of BTL. 
 
35. The Commission in its past order of UltraTech Cement Limited 1 has observed that all 
degrees and forms of control nonetheless constitute control. The international jurisprudence 
considers ‘material influence’ as the lowest form of control with other higher forms such 
 
1 Order under Section 44 of the Act pertaining to Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246 dated 12th March 
2018  

 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 12 of 16 
 
as de facto control and controlling interest (de jure control) in that order. Material influence, 
the lowest level of control, implies presence of factors which give an enterprise ability to 
influence affairs and management of the other enterprise including factors such as 
shareholding, special rights, status and expertise of an enterprise or person, Board 
representation, structural/financial arrangements etc. 
 
36. Acquisition of shares in a company is coupled with certain statutory rights and may have 
certain rights provided in its charter documents or by way of mutual understanding (such 
rights are reflected in documents such as shareholder’s agreement or governance agreement 
or investment agreement) between the stakeholders. Contractual arrangement may vary 
from case to case depending upon the spectrum of nature of these rights and their effect on 
behaviour/ degree of influence over the enterprise.  
 
37. The rationale for any arrangement and the source of rights are not relevant for holding 
whether a right confers ability to materially influence or not. Whether any right provides 
material influence over the management or affairs or strategic commercial decisions or not, 
depends upon its nexus with the likely economic behaviour of the target.  
 
38. Ability to participate in board decision-making process by representative not only provides 
access to commercially sensitive information but also provides ability to influence 
decision-making process of the target. There may be acquisition of control including 
material influence, even if it is not the declared intention of the parties. Control is the 
possibility of exercising material influence rather than its actual exercise.  
 
39. Extent of influence exerted by a representative on the board in decision-making depends 
upon several factors such as extent of industry knowledge, length of experience, recognition 
in business world, length of association with the enterprise, dependence of the target for 
funding, technology, supply of inputs or sale of product and services, etc. Acquirer’s 
industry expertise might lead to its advice being followed to a greater extent than its extent 
of voting right. Further, target’s efforts to pursue certain strategies may get dampened 
pursuant to perception of the shareholder. Minority presence on the board may enable 

 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 13 of 16 
 
exercise of material influence over the management or affairs or strategic commercial 
decisions of the target.  
 
40. Thus, control, whether it may be in the form of sole or joint, is defined as possibility (i.e., 
mere existence of rights and not the actual conduct in relation to these rights) of exercising 
material influence on the enterprise on the basis of shareholding, voting rights, other rights, 
contracts/agreements or any other means. Joint control exists when two or more persons 
have the ability to exercise material influence over another enterprise. Joint control does 
not require for two enterprises to have equal rights or equal degree of control in the other 
enterprise. A constraining presence on the decision-making process or affairs or 
management of an enterprise by a person suffices control. 
 
41. BAL and LMIL have based their argument on the difference between control, joint control 
and material influence. In this regard, based on the foregoing, the Commission observes 
that when determining the applicability of benefit of Item 2 Provision, ‘joint control’ and 
‘sole control’ should be read to include the ability to exercise material influence over the 
management or affairs or strategic commercial decisions of the target. Thus, the Parties’ 
submission that test for Item 2 Provision is that of joint control and not material influence, 
former being a higher threshold, is not tenable.  
 
42. Veto right confers control to the acquirer over the concerned matter of the target. Thus, 
veto on the matter of economic or commercial significance to the target is always 
considered conferring control in terms of and for the purposes of the Section 5 of the Act. 
 
43. LMIL held 20% shareholding in BTL prior to the Transaction, along with a bundle of rights, 
including, inter alia,: (a) right to appoint a non-executive director on the board of BTL and 
nominate such director on the audit committee of BTL as long as LMIL held 7.5% stake in 
BTL; (b) LMIL director had the right to access the books, accounts, records, properties and 
facilities of BTL; (c) affirmative veto rights over certain reserved matters such as 
amendment to the charter documents; amalgamation or merger or demerger or spin-off; 
change in capital structure with certain exceptions, so long as LMIL held 7.5% stake in 

 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 14 of 16 
 
BTL; (d) BTL could consult LMIL while appointing, removing or re-appointing of the 
KMPs of BTL prior to taking any such decision, so long as LMIL held 7.5% stake in BTL; 
(e) LMIL director was required for quorum in a scheduled board meeting/shareholder 
meeting; (f) rights in subsidiaries – all the rights mentioned were available to LMIL in 
respect of all direct and indirect subsidiaries of BTL, so long as LMIL held 7.5% stake in 
BTL; and (g) information rights wherein BTL was required to provide management 
information reports, quarterly audited financial statements and audited financial statements 
to LMIL.  
 
44. LMIL had 20% shareholding in BTL with corresponding voting rights as well as 
representation on the board (albeit minority), veto rights, quorum requirements, 
consultation rights, etc. The rights held by LMIL in BTL also extend to all subsidiaries of 
BTL. Further, LMIL even exercised its right of appointing board member, Mr. Viraj 
Sawhney, on the board of BTL. The ability to participate in the board decision-making 
process provides access to commercially sensitive information in addition to the ability to 
influence the decision-making process. Further, the quorum requirements also mandated 
the presence of this board member of LMIL in all scheduled board meetings and 
shareholder meetings. Only in situations that such quorum was not met in the first instance, 
the meeting may be rescheduled after 7 days, where such quorum requirement can be 
waived off. Even in such meetings, no decision on the reserved matters could be taken. 
These matters, inter alia, include amendments to charter documents, proposal for 
amalgamation, merger, demerger or spin off. The sum total of veto rights appear to be 
related to affairs or management of BTL and hence confer material influence of LMIL over 
BTL.  
 
45. Further, the dichotomy in the submissions of BAL and LMIL is also evident from the fact 
that while the Parties claim these veto rights as investor protection, they fail to elucidate 
why LMIL does not require such rights in the BTL if its investment falls below 7.5%.  
 
46. Prior to the transaction, where certain material influence over management or affairs or 
strategic commercial decisions of an enterprise is subject to joint control, but one of the 

 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 15 of 16 
 
shareholders exerting joint control loses its ability to materially influence, the other joint 
controller gains sole control over management or affairs or strategic commercial decisions 
of an enterprise. In such cases, benefit of Item 2 Provision would not be available. This 
would hold good irrespective of the fact that the person that gained sole control, already 
held more than 75% shareholding and thus, sole control over special resolutions.  
 
47. Considering the rights of LMIL, the Commission concludes that the rights held by LMIL 
in BTL prior to Transaction conferred upon it the ability to exert material influence over 
management or affairs or strategic commercial decisions. Thereby, the Step 1 is not eligible 
for the benefit of Item 2 Provision. 
 
48. With regard to submission about eligibility of Step 2 of the Transaction for Item 1 Provision 
the Commission observes that Step 2 being part payment for Step 1 renders the two tranches 
interconnected within the meaning of Regulation 9(4) of the Combination Regulations. The 
interconnectedness of the Step 1 and Step 2 places an onus to jointly notify the Transaction, 
as per Regulation 9(4) of the Combination Regulation. Accordingly, the Commission 
concludes that one composite notice ought to be filed to the Commission, prior to 
consummating any step of the Transaction, jointly by both the Parties, with BAL being the 
acquirer in Step 1 and LMIL being the acquirer in Step 2.  
 
49. Section 43A of the Act provides that if any person or enterprise fails to give notice to the 
Commission under Section 6(2) of the Act, the Commission shall impose on such person 
or enterprise a penalty which may extend to 1% of the total turnover or the assets, whichever 
is higher, of such a combination. Thus, Section 43A of the Act empowers the Commission 
to determine the appropriate amount of penalty in a matter, subject to the maximum of 1% 
of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher.  
 
50. Considering the facts and circumstances of the instant matter, the conduct of BAL and 
LMIL during the proceedings, and the past violations of the Act by BAL2, the Commission 
 
2 Orders under Section 43A of the Act pertaining to Combination Registration Nos. C-2017/10/531, C-2017/05/510 
and C-2017/05/509 dated 27th August 2018, 11th May 2018 and 11th May 2018, respectively 

 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 16 of 16 
 
considers it appropriate to impose a penalty of INR 1,00,00,000 (Indian Rupees One Crore 
only) on BAL (being the acquirer in Step 1 of the Transaction), which is directed to pay the 
penalty within 60 days from the date of receipt of this order. 
 
51. Further, under Regulation 8(2) of the Combination Regulations, the Commission hereby 
also directs BAL and LMIL to file notice with the Commission in appropriate form, in 
relation to the Transaction, within 60 days from the receipt of the direction of the 
Commission.   
 
52. The Secretary is directed to communicate to BAL and LMIL accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
