 
Page 1 of 6 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
30th August 2022 
 
Proceedings against Global Infrastructure Partners India Private Limited under Section 
43A of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
CORAM: 
 
Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta  
Chairperson 
 
Ms. Sangeeta Verma 
Member 
 
Mr. Bhagwant Singh Bishnoi 
Member 
 
 
ORDER UNDER SECTIONS 43A OF THE COMPETITION ACT, 2002 
 
A. 
INTRODUCTION 
 
This Order shall dispose of the proceedings under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 
2002 (Act) against Global Infrastructure Partners India Private Limited (GIP /Acquirer)1, in 
relation to its acquisition of the infrastructure asset management business of IDFC Alternatives 
Limited (IDFC Alternatives). 
 
2. 
From the information available on records, the Competition Commission of India 
(Commission), in its meeting held on 29th December 2021, observed that IDFC Alternatives 
entered into a business transfer agreement with GIP inter alia to transfer investment 
management rights for certain funds managed by it, on a going concern basis for a lump sum 
consideration (Acquisition). It was apparent that the Acquisition become effective from 1st 
July 20182. However, no notice was given to the Commission under Section 6(2) of the Act in 
respect of the Acquisition. Therefore, GIP was directed under Section 36(4) of the Act, to 
                                                            
1 Formerly known as Global Infrastructure Partners India LLP 
 
2 Source: Annual Report of IDFC Limited for FY 2018-19 
 

 
Page 2 of 6 
 
furnish certain information to assess whether any further proceeding is required under Section 
20(1) and/or Section 43A of the Act, as the case may be. In response, GIP furnished its written 
submissions dated 16th February 2022 and 22nd April 2022 (Responses). GIP also voluntarily 
made another submission dated 7th June 2022. 
 
3. 
One of the contentions of GIP is that the Acquisition was concluded almost 4 years ago 
and the proviso to Section 20(1) of Act provides that Commission shall not initiate any inquiry 
into a combination after the expiry of one year from the date on which such combination has 
taken effect. In this regard, the Commission notes that the instant proceedings are not limited 
to the inquiry under Section 20(1) of the Act but also under Section 43A of the Act to ascertain 
whether the parties have failed to give notice to the Commission in terms of Section 6(2) of the 
Act, in respect of the Acquisition. The Commission further notes that the period of limitation 
contained in Section 20(1) of the Act is not applicable to proceedings under Section 43A of the 
Act. To such extent, the contentions of GIP that the instant proceedings are time barred in view 
of Section 20(1) is misplaced and sans merit.  
 
B. 
TRANSACTION  
  
4. 
The Acquisition envisaged GIP acquiring the following from IDFC Alternatives 
(Business Undertaking):  
 
4.1 
the infrastructure fund management business involving rights to act as 
investment manager to the India Infrastructure Fund (IIF I)3 and the India 
Infrastructure Fund II (IIF II)4; 
 
4.2 
certain identified assets and liabilities as specified in the business transfer 
agreement entered inter alia between GIP and IDFC Alternatives on 27th April 
2018); and 
 
4.3 
the team associated with managing the aforementioned funds. 
 
5. 
Pursuant to the Acquisition, GIP has become the investment manager of  IIF I and IIF 
II. Suitable amendments have also been made to the investment management agreements, trust 
                                                            
3 Venture capital fund registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and set up as a trust 
under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882, the trustee of which was IDFC Trustee Company Limited (IDFC Trustee) at 
the time of consummation of the transaction. 
 
4 An alternative investment fund registered with SEBI and set up as a trust under the Indian Trust Act, 1882, the 
trustee of which was IDFC Trustee at the time of consummation of the transaction. 
 

 
Page 3 of 6 
 
deeds and contribution agreements in relation to IIF I and IIF II. These provide that post closing 
of the Acquisition: (i) GIP shall effectively step into the role of the outgoing investment 
manager of IIF I and IIF II viz. IDFC Alternatives, and (ii) GIM India Holdings L.P., an affiliate 
of GIP, shall effectively step into the role of the outgoing sponsor of IIF I and IIF II viz. IDFC 
Limited. GIP is inter alia entitled to all rights and title of the Business Undertaking. GIP, in its 
capacity as the investment manager of IIF I and IIF II, could exercise the rights available to the 
fund(s) in the investee companies. These rights are exercised through nominees of IIF I and IIF 
II on the boards of directors of the investee companies, and by way of exercise of voting rights 
at the meetings of shareholders of the investee companies. 
 
C. 
STATUTORY PROVISION 
 
6. 
Section 6(2) of the Act inter alia provides that any person or enterprise who or which 
proposes to enter into a combination shall give notice to the Commission. Further, Section 43A 
of the Act provides that if any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission 
under Section 6(2) of the Act, the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a 
penalty which may extend to one percent, of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is 
higher, of such a combination. Section 54 of the Act empowers the Central Government to 
provide for exemption from the application of the provisions the Act. Further, Regulation 4 of 
the Competition Commission of India (Procedure in regard to the transaction of business 
relating to combinations) Regulations, 2011 (Combination Regulations) provides that the 
categories of combination specified in Schedule I therein need not normally be filed as they 
are ordinarily not likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition in India. These 
make it abundantly clear that unless the requirement of the notice has been dispensed with by 
way of exemption provided under Section 54 of the Act or the Combinations Regulations, a 
person or enterprise proposing to enter into a combination is under an obligation to give notice 
to the Commission under Section 6(2) of the Act, failing which such person or enterprise shall 
be liable for a penalty in terms of Section 43A of the Act. 
 
D. 
ISSUES FOR DETERMINATION 
 
7. 
In the facts and circumstances of the case, it would be relevant to examine following: 
 
7.1. 
Whether the Acquisition is a combination in terms of Section 5 of the Act; and 
 
7.2. 
Whether notification of the Acquisition is dispensed with pursuant to any 
exemption provided under Section 54 of the Act or the relaxations provided 
under Regulation 4 read with Schedule I to the Combination Regulations. 
 

 
Page 4 of 6 
 
E. 
SUBMISSIONS DATED 7TH JUNE 2022 OF GIP  
 
8. 
GIP has submitted that at that time of the Acquisition, it had sought advice from its 
legal counsel. Based on the financials of IDFC Alternatives, IIF I and IIF II, without 
considering financials of the controlled portfolio entities, GIP was advised that the Acquisition 
could avail the benefit of De Minimis Exemption5 and therefore, the Acquisition is not 
notifiable to the Commission. Accordingly, GIP proceeded to consummate the transaction with 
a bona fide belief that the Acquisition does not call for a notification under Section 6(2) of the 
Act. At no point, there was any intention on the part of GIP to avoid compliance or assessment 
of the transaction by the Commission. At that time, GIP did not have the benefit of findings of 
the Commission in its recent order in Investcorp Case6.  
 
9. 
GIP has now submitted that the Acquisition is a combination in terms of Section 5 of 
the Act and is not eligible for the benefit of De Minimis exemption. It has been further 
submitted that the Acquisition is also not eligible for relaxation provided under Regulation 4 
read with Schedule I of Combination Regulations. Accordingly, the Acquisition ought to have 
been notified under Section 6(2) of the Act and the parties should have complied with the 
standstill obligation under Section 6(2A) of the Act. However, GIP consummated the 
Acquisition without giving notice to the Commission under Section 6(2) of the Act. Therefore, 
GIP has become liable for a penalty in terms of Section 43A of the Act. GIP has requested the 
Commission to immediately conclude the instant proceeding. It has further waived the right to 
notice and an opportunity to be provided to it in terms of Regulation 48(1) of the Competition 
Commission of India (Procedure in regard to the transaction of business relating to 
combinations) Regulations, 2011 (General Regulations). GIP has also submitted that GIP 
submit itself to any penalty which may be levied by the Commission in terms of the provision 
of Section 43A of the Act. GIP has further undertaken that any order imposing penalty, as 
aforesaid, shall be duly and immediately complied with, without any demur or protest. GIP has 
requested that its conduct and cooperation in the instant proceeding be taken into consideration 
for benevolence from the Commission in deciding the amount of penalty. 
 
F. 
DETERMINATION BY THE COMMISSION 
 
10. 
It is observed that the provision of Regulation 48 of the General Regulations provides 
for the procedure to levy penalty under any of the provisions contained in Chapter VI of the 
Act. Regulation 48(1) of the General Regulations provides that no order or direction imposing 
                                                            
5 Granted through notification no. S.O. 988(E) dated 27th March 2017 issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, 
Government of India in exercise of power granted to the Central Government under Section 54 of the Act 
 
6 Order dated 17th December 2021 of the Commission issued under Section 43A of the Act against Investcorp 
India Asset Managers Private Limited 

 
Page 5 of 6 
 
a penalty under Chapter VI of the Act shall be made unless the person or the enterprise or a 
party to the proceeding, during an ordinary meeting of the Commission, has been given a show 
cause notice and reasonable opportunity to represent his case before the Commission. This 
imbibes the fundamental principle of natural justice that no one be condemned without an 
opportunity of being heard. However, in the instant matter, GIP has made detailed submission 
admitting its contravention of the provisions of Section 6(2) of the Act. In view of such 
admission, it has waived its right to notice and opportunity under Regulation 48 of the General 
Regulations, to represent any case that its conduct does not amount to a contravention.  It has 
further submitted that it would comply with the order, if any, of the Commission that imposes 
penalty under Section 43A of the Act.  Thus, in the facts and circumstances of the case, the 
Commission does not find it necessary to issue a notice under Regulation 48 of the General 
Regulations.  
 
11. 
Coming to the merits of the issues involved, it is observed that pooled investment 
schemes generally envisage demutualisation of investment management and ownership, 
wherein the subscribers give authority to the investment managers to conduct the operations of 
the fund. The investment manager of the fund, being the authority to exercise and protect such 
interest, would invariably enjoy control over the portfolio entities where the shareholding 
and/or contractual rights of the fund is such as to enable material influence or higher degree of 
control over such portfolio entities. When the management of such a fund is acquired, the 
acquirer would gain control over the portfolio entities of the fund. Acquisition of control is one 
of the forms of combination under Section 5 read with Section 2(a) of the Act. Accordingly, in 
addition to the target business i.e. management of the fund, the value of assets and turnover of 
the controlled portfolio entities would also be relevant for the purpose of computing thresholds 
under Section 5 of the Act as well as the De Minimis exemption. It is immaterial whether 
beneficial interest or ownership over the portfolio entities is being acquired or not. GIP has 
also acknowledged these in its submissions dated 7th June 2022. 
 
12. 
The Commission notes that the assets and turnover of even some of the portfolio 
companies of IIF I and IIF II, where they have more than 50% shareholding, were more than 
the financial threshold prescribed under Section 5 of the Act. Financials of these portfolio 
companies were also in excess of the threshold prescribed for De Minimis Exemption. Thus, 
the Acquisition is a combination in terms of Section 5 of the Act and is not eligible for the 
benefit of De Minimis Exemption. The material available on record also suggest that the 
Acquisition is not covered under any of the categories of combination contained in Schedule I 
to the Combination Regulations. However, GIP consummated the Acquisition without giving 
notice to the Commission under Section 6(2) of the Act, thereby making itself liable for levy 
of penalty in terms of Section 43A of the Act. 
 

 
Page 6 of 6 
 
13. 
Section 43A of the Act provides that if any person or enterprise fails to give notice 
under Section 6(2) of the Act, the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a 
penalty which may extend upto one percent of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is 
higher, of such a combination. Though the penalty under Section 43A of the Act can be to the 
said extent mentioned therein, the Commission has sufficient discretion to consider the conduct 
of the parties and circumstances of the case to arrive at an appropriate amount of penalty. 
 
14. 
In the instant matter, GIP has extended its co-operation by supplying requisite 
material/documents, which formed the basis of the above findings of contravention. As 
elucidated above, GIP has admitted the contravention, even before issuance of notice under 
Regulation 48 of the General Regulations, and has thus, saved regulatory resources. Keeping 
these in mind as well as the submissions of GIP, the Commission considers it appropriate to 
impose a penalty of INR 30,00,000 (Indian Rupees Thirty Lakh) on GIP under Section 43A of 
the Act. It is ordered accordingly. GIP shall pay the penalty within 60 days from the date of 
communication of this order. 
 
15. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate this order to GIP, accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
