 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
                                 (Combination Registration No. C-2015/07/293) 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                Page 1 of 4 
 
  Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
                                  
 
01.09.2015 
    
 
Notice u/s 6 (2) of the Competition Act, 2002 (‘Act’) given by:  
 
 
EMC Limited,  
 
Order under Section 31(1) of the Competition Act, 2002 (‘Act’) 
 
CORAM:  
Mr. Ashok Chawla 
 
Chairperson 
 
Mr. S. L. Bunker  
Member  
 
Mr.Sudhir Mital 
Member  
 
Mr. Augustine Peter  
Member  
 
Mr. M.S. Sahoo 
Member  
 
Mr. U. C. Nahta 
Member 
 
Mr. G. P. Mittal 
Member 
 
Legal representative: M/s Khaitan & Co. LLP 
1. 
On 14th July 2015, the Competition Commission of India (“Commission”) 
received a notice under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act given by EMC 
Limited (‘EMC’), pursuant to signing of an Investment Agreement (‘IA’) with 
McNally Bharat Engineering Company Limited (“MBECL” or Target) and the 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
                                 (Combination Registration No. C-2015/07/293) 
 
Page 2 of 4 
  Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Promoter group1 of MBECL on 30th June 2015. (EMC and MBECL are 
hereinafter together referred to as “Parties”). 
2. 
The Proposed combination relates to acquisition of 19.77 percent shareholding of 
MBECL by EMC. It has been stated in the notice that the said agreement also 
triggers an open offer under the provisions of the Securities Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeover) Regulations, 2011 
(‘Takeover code’). EMC along with WMCL (one of the Promoter group 
companies of MBECL), are required to jointly make an open offer to the public 
shareholders of MBECL to acquire up to 26 percent of the shares in MBECL. 
According to the Acquirer, post the subscription of shares by EMC and the 
acquisition of the shares in the open offer, MBECL will be under the joint control 
of EMC and the Promoter group. 
3. 
In this regard, it is observed that MKN Investment Private Limited (‘MKN’), a 
promoter group company of EMC, subscribed 12.32% of the share capital of 
MBECL in the month of March 2015. 
4. 
In terms of Regulation 14 of Competition Commission of India (Procedure in 
regard to the transaction of business relating to combinations) Regulations, 2011 
(‘Combination Regulations’) vide letter dated 3rd August 2015, Acquirer was 
required to remove certain defects and provide information/document(s). Acquirer 
submitted information on 12th August 2015 after seeking an extension of four days.  
5. 
EMC is a public company, engaged in providing services relating to turnkey 
solutions/equipment for Transmission & Distribution (‘T & D’) including supply 
of substations, electrical automation and electrification for power plants, cement 
plants etc. EMC offers turnkey solutions inclusive of design, engineering, 
erection, testing and commissioning including auxiliary sub-systems such as 
lighting and illumination and fire protection systems for transmission, distribution 
and railway infrastructure. 
                                                          
1 According to Acquirer, Promoter group of MBECL includes following entities: McLeod Russel India 
Limited (“MRIL”), Williamson Magor & Co. Limited (“WMCL”), Babcock Borsig Limited (“BBL”), 
Williamson Financial Services Limited (“WFSL”), Kilburn Engineering Limited (“KEL”), Bishnauth 
Investments Limited (“BIL”), Amritanshu Khaitan 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
                                 (Combination Registration No. C-2015/07/293) 
 
Page 3 of 4 
  Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
6. 
MBECL is a public company listed on Bombay Stock Exchange (‘BSE’) and 
National Stock Exchange (‘NSE’) and is engaged in the activities interalia, 
relating to the steel plant building sector, equipment for the aluminum industry, 
lead and zinc processing, manufacture and supply of port equipment, civil 
construction, supply of substations of capacity up to 400 KV etc. 
7. 
In the light of information provided by the Acquirer and other documents on 
record, it is observed that the Parties have horizontal overlaps in the activity of 
supplying substations of capacity up to 400 KV, a sub-segment of the broader 
T&D equipment market. The Acquirer has submitted that in the activity of 
supplying substations of capacity up to 400 KV, the market share of EMC is in 
the range of 5-10 percent and the market share of MBECL is only 0-5 percent. It 
is further stated that there are large number of other players such as L&T Ltd. (30-
35 percent), Alstom T&D India Ltd. (25-30 percent), ABB India Ltd. (12.5-15 
percent), Siemens (12.5-15 percent) and KEC International Ltd. (10-15 percent), 
active in the supply of substations.  
8. 
As already stated, while EMC is engaged in supplying product and services in the 
entire T & D sector, the MBECL is engaged only in the supply of substations up 
to 400 KV, which is one of the sub-segments in the broader T & D equipment 
segment. In this regard, it is observed that the insignificant market share of EMC 
ranging 0 to 5 percent in the overall T & D sector, rules out the possibility of any 
vertical foreclosure. 
9. 
Considering the facts on record and the details provided in the notice given under 
sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Act and assessment of the proposed 
combination on the basis of factors stated in sub-section (4) of section 20 of the 
Act, the Commission is of the opinion that the proposed combination is not likely 
to have an appreciable adverse effect on competition in India and therefore, the 
Commission hereby approves the same under sub-section (1) of section 31 of the 
Act. This order is, however, issued without prejudice to any proceedings under 
Section 43A of the Act. 
10. 
This order shall stand revoked if, at any time, the information provided by the 
Acquirer is found to be incorrect. 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
                                 (Combination Registration No. C-2015/07/293) 
 
Page 4 of 4 
  Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
11. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Acquirer accordingly.  
 
 
 
 
