 
Page 1 of 14 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
Combination Registration No. C-2024/05/1142 
 
NON-CONFIDENTIAL  
31stJuly 2025 
Proceedings under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 (Act) in relation to notice 
filed under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act by Manipal Health Systems Private 
Limited and MEMG Family Office LLP 
 
CORAM:  
 
Ms. Ravneet Kaur 
Chairperson 
 
Mr. Anil Agrawal  
Member 
 
Ms. Sweta Kakkad 
Member 
 
Appearances: Mr. Samir Gandhi, Advocate, Mr. Ankit Majumdar, Advocate, Mr. Anicham 
Tamilnani, Advocate and Mr. Ravi Gangal, Advocate  
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
A. 
BACKGROUND 
1. 
The Competition Commission of India (Commission)  in its meeting held on 23rd July 
2024 had considered the notice dated 09th May 2024 received under sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 of the Act filed by Manipal Health Systems Private Limited (Acquirer 1/ 

 
 
 
Combination Registration No. C-2024/05/1142 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 14 
 
MHSPL) and MEMG Family Office LLP (Acquirer 2/ MEMG FO) [Acquirer-1 and 
Acquirer-2 are together referred to as ‘Acquirers’] and passed an order under sub-
section (1) of Section 31 of the Competition Act, 2002 (Act)  approving the combination 
without prejudice to any proceeding under Section 43A of the Act (Order). 
Description of the Parties 
2. 
Acquirer 1: Acquirer-1 is a privately held healthcare company in which Manipal Global 
Health Services, Manipal Education and Medical Group India Pvt. Ltd. and Acquirer-2 
hold shareholding. It provides a diverse range of services, including hospital services, 
research services, telemedicine, home healthcare, and medical tourism. 
 
3. 
Acquirer 2: Acquirer-2, incorporated in India, is a limited liability partnership firm and 
ultimately belongs to the Pai Family Group. Its designated partners include Dr. Ranjan 
Ramdas Pai and Mrs. Shruti Ranjan Pai and Manipal Education and Medical Group India 
Pvt. Ltd. It is engaged in the provision of management consultancy services and advisory 
activities to customers in India and does not have any operations other than in India.  
 
4. 
Pai Family: The Pai Family comprises Dr. Ranjan Pai, Mrs. Shruti Pai, Ms. Sanya Pai 
and Ms. Rhea Pai (together referred to as “Pai Family”). The Pai Family is treated as the 
ultimate parent of the Pai Family Group, including the Acquirers. The Pai Family and 
Pai Family Group, including through their affiliates, are engaged in (i) running and 
managing hospitals and providing health care services; (ii) providing management 
business consultancy and other related services; (iii) providing services in finance, 
management, administration, legal, human resources development and other related 
fields; (iv) management and administration of teaching hospitals; (v) operating various 
hospitals or clinics for providing healthcare services; and (vi) providing educations and 
related services. It is submitted in the notice that educational institutions operated by the 
Acquirer Group offer their services primarily in the formal education segment and not in 
the market for non-formal education. 

 
 
 
Combination Registration No. C-2024/05/1142 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 14 
 
 
5. 
Target: The Target is Aakash Educational Services Limited (Target/AESL). Aakash 
Edutech Private Limited (AEPL) is the 100% subsidiary of the Target. The Target 
operates classroom centres (including its franchisee centres) (Aakash Centres) across 
India. Further, the Target offers its services through multiple modes such as classroom-
based coaching, online learning, distance learning and hybrid learning programmes. The 
Target (directly or through its subsidiary or its franchisees) provides following services: 
(i) coaching services supplementing their classroom learning curated learning resources 
for class 8; (ii) preparatory coaching services for junior competitive scholarship tests and 
merit-based entrance tests, such as Olympiads and NTSE; (iii) coaching services 
supplementing their classroom learning curated learning resources for class 9 to 10; and 
(iv) coaching services supplementing their classroom learning curated learning resources 
for science stream for classes 11 and 12 [hereinafter, the Acquirers and the Target are 
collectively referred to as the ‘Parties’]. 
 
Transaction 
 
6. 
The Commission in its Order dated 23rd July 2024 approved the following Combination: 
 
i. Acquisition by the Acquirer-1 of 39.61% of the share capital of the AESL, on post 
issue fully diluted basis, pursuant to the conversion of the debentures to equity shares 
of the Target in accordance with the Debenture Trust Deed (Transaction-1); and  
 
ii. Acquisition by Acquirer-2 of up to an additional 8.25% of the share capital of the 
Target on a post issue basis (or such additional shares as decreed by the arbitral 
tribunal at the date of transfer) pursuant to the occurrence of an event of default under 
loan agreement dated 13th October 2023 (Transaction-2). 
 
Transaction-1 and Transaction-2 are together referred to as the “Combination”. Post the 
completion of Transaction-2, the Acquirers together would hold up to approximately 
48% of the Target’s share capital on a post issue fully diluted basis. 

 
 
 
Combination Registration No. C-2024/05/1142 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 14 
 
Submissions in the Notice 
(a) Transaction 1 
 
7. 
With respect to Transaction 1, it was submitted in the notice that AESL had issued 20,000 
debentures of aggregate face value of INR 2000 crore to DKP India Scheme I, an 
alternative investment fund registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
under the terms of the debenture trust deed dated 25th April 2023 as amended on 2nd June 
2023 (Debenture Trust Deed). 
 
8. 
The Acquirer-1 purchased the aforesaid 20,000 debentures by payment of aggregate 
consideration of INR 1452.60 crores through the CBRICS platform of the National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited (NSE) on 10th November 2023. 
 
9. 
Pursuant to various events of default under the terms of the Debenture Trust Deed, and 
in accordance with the terms thereof, Catalyst Trusteeship Limited (Debenture 
Trustee), issued a conversion notice dated 15th January 2024 to the Target, calling upon 
the Target to convert INR 2184.70 crores of the debenture obligations into equity shares 
of the Target, representing 39.61% of the share capital of the Target on a post issue fully 
diluted basis in accordance with clause 8.2(g) of the Debenture Trust Deed. 
Theshareholders of the Target approved this conversion through the Special Resolution 
dated 25th April 2023.  
 
10. As to the date of special resolution being prior to date of conversion notice, it was 
clarified that along with the execution of the Debenture Trust Deed, the shareholders of 
the Target had also passed a special resolution on 25th April 2023, to enable its board of 
directors to effectuate the conversion of shares as contemplated therein, in the event a 
default was to occur in the future. 
 
11. Further, regarding date of default under the terms of the Debenture Trust Deed, it is 
submitted that a demand notice was issued on 7th September 2023 from the Debenture 

 
 
 
Combination Registration No. C-2024/05/1142 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 14 
 
Trustee to Think & Learn Private Limited (T&L). Pursuant to the event of default and 
acceleration dated 26th June 2023, from the Debenture Trustee, inter alia, the Target was 
called upon to forthwith pay and repay the entire debenture obligations with respect to 
the Series A Debentures and Series B Debentures. Therefore, the date of default was 26th 
June 2023 pursuant to which the conversion notice dated 15th January 2024 was issued.  
 
12. Pursuant to the conversion notice dated 15th January 2024, the Target allotted equity 
shares to the Acquirer-1 on 22nd January 2024 representing 39.61% of the share capital 
of the Target on a post issue fully diluted basis (Transaction-1). 
(b) Transaction 2 
 
13. It was stated in the notice that, apart from above, the Acquirer-1 and other entities of 
MEMG Group (namely, Manipal Health Initiative Private Limited, MNI Ventures, and 
MEMG FO) had disbursed loans to AESL and its related entities (collectively, the “Loan 
Agreements”).  
 
14. With respect to Loan Agreement dated 13th October 2023 (LA-3), it is stated that this 
Loan was provided as an advance payment for the purchase consideration towards 
purchase of equity shares of AESL amounting to 6% ownership (at the time of the loan) 
of the Target (Sale Shares). However, these equity shares amounting to 6% (at the time 
of the loan) in the Target were not transferred to MEMG FO. Further, LA-3 also gave 
MEMG FO the right to receive additional 2.25% of equity shares of AESL (Additional 
Shares). 
 
15. Due to non-payment of the outstanding amounts by the specified date with respect to LA-
3, Acquirer-2 issued a notice on 18th March 2024 referring the dispute to arbitration 
seated in Bangalore to be conducted in accordance with rules of the Singapore 
International Arbitration Centre (SIAC), seeking transfer of Sale Shares and Additional 
Shares. By way of an interim order dated 4th April 2024 (SIAC Interim Order), the 

 
 
 
Combination Registration No. C-2024/05/1142 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 14 
 
arbitrator has restrained the sellers from disposing or encumbering Sale Shares of AESL 
until further orders in these arbitration proceedings.  
 
16. Accordingly, in addition to the shares already acquired (39.61%) pursuant to the 
Transaction-1, Acquirer-2 sought approval for the acquisition of up to an additional 
8.25% equity shares of AESL’s share capital (or such additional number of shares as 
decreed by the arbitral tribunal at the date of the transfer) (Transaction-2). 
 
B. 
ISSUE OF SHOW CAUSE NOTICE (SCN) 
 
17. The Commission considered the matter in its meeting held on 23rd July 2024 and 
observed that Transaction-1, as mentioned above, was completed on 22nd January 2024 
without filing notice with the Commission.  Regarding the sequence of events, it was 
noted that the event of default in respect of Transaction-1 occurred on 26th June 2023, in 
furtherance of which the demand notice was issued by the Debenture Trustee on 7th 
September, 2023. Acquirer-1 purchased the said debentures on 10th November 2023. 
Subsequently, the Debenture Trustee issued the conversion notice dated 15th January 
2024 pursuant to which the equity shares of the Target were allotted to Acquirer-1 on 
22nd January 2024. Notably, even though the conversion notice was issued before 
acquisition of shares, the notice was not filed with the Commission prior to allotment of 
shares. The instant notice was filed with the Commission only on 09th May 2024 i.e., 
much after the allotment of 39.61% equity shares of the Target to Acquirer-1.  
 
18. Consequently, based on the information disclosed in the notice, it was evident that 
Transaction-1 was consummated and given effect to without notifying the same to the 
Commission. Thus, the Commission was of the prima facie opinion that there is a 
contravention of the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 6 and sub-section (2A) of 
Section 6 of the Act in the instant matter. Hence, the Commission decided to issue SCN 
to the Acquirers under Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the Competition 
Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009. 

 
 
 
Combination Registration No. C-2024/05/1142 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 14 
 
19. Accordingly, an Order dated 23rd July 2024 (SCN Order) was passed by the Commission 
directing the Acquirers, to explain, in writing, within a time period of 15 days from the 
receipt of the SCN Order as to why: (i) they should not be found in contravention of the 
provisions of the Act and (ii) no penalty in terms of Section 43A of the Act should be 
imposed upon them.The SCN Order was communicated to the Acquirers vide letter dated 
29th August 2024 and the Acquirers submitted their response on 11th October 2024 (SCN 
Response), after seeking extension of time.  
 
C. 
RESPONSE TO SCN  
 
(i) 
Submissions with respect to Transaction 1 by Acquirer 1: 
20. It is stated in the SCN Response that Transaction 1 which comprises Acquirer-1’s 
acquisition of 39.61% of the Target’s equity share capital on a post issue fully diluted 
basis was triggered since the Debenture Trustee issued a conversion notice dated 15th  
January 2024 under Clause 8.2(g) of the Debenture Trust Deed dated 25thApril 2023 as 
amended on 2ndJune 2023, calling upon AESL to convert the debenture obligations into 
equity shares, representing 39.61% of its total equity shareholding on a post issue fully 
diluted basis. The Debenture Trustee was constrained to issue the Conversion Notice due 
to AESL having failed, despite multiple notices by the Debenture Trustee, to rectify 
several breaches, each of which constituted an event of default under Clause 8.1 of the 
Debenture Trust Deed. 
 
21. The critical and extenuating circumstances underpinning Transaction 1, necessitate a 
purposive and holistic interpretation of Sections 6(2), 6(2A) and 43A of the Act. Such an 
approach would mean that Acquirer-1’s pro-competitive action of acquiring shares of 
AESL pursuant to Transaction 1 neither warrants a finding of infringement of Sections 
6(2) and 6(2A) of the Act nor requires imposition of any penalty on it under Section 43A 
of the Act.  
 

 
 
 
Combination Registration No. C-2024/05/1142 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 14 
 
22. AESL had issued 20,000 debentures of aggregate face value of INR 2,000 crore to DKP 
India Scheme I under the terms of the Debenture Trust Deed. At the time Acquirer-1 
purchased the aforesaid debentures, various events of default under the terms of the 
Debenture Trust Deed had taken place which AESL had failed to cure. The terms of the 
debentures themselves provided for conversion of the debentures in such circumstances, 
and in accordance with the terms thereof, the Debenture Trustee issued a conversion 
notice dated 15th January 2024 to AESL.  
 
23. Acquirer-1 was constrained to proceed with the conversion as described above without 
any delay for the following reasons:  
 
a. Financial Distress of Key Shareholder: One of the shareholders of the AESL, T&L, 
has been in significant financial difficulty, with media reports suggesting that T&L’s 
creditors would initiate recovery proceedings against T&L. In fact, a petition seeking 
initiation of corporate insolvency resolution proceedings was also pending against 
T&L at the time. It was therefore essential for Acquirer-1 to secure the conversion of 
thedebentures before any of the financial difficulties affecting T&L affected AESL. 
 
b. AESL’s Financial Vulnerability: AESL’s own financial position has been weakened 
significantly and its outstanding debt impacted its operations to an extent that the 
ability of AESL to carry on as a going concern was at risk. If the debentures had not 
been converted into equity shares, AESL would have ceased to be able to continue as 
a going concern and almost 4 lakh students who relied on AESL’s educational 
services would be adversely affected. By avoiding a scenario where AESL was 
unable to continue as a going concern, Transaction 1 maintained a competitive 
landscape in the relevant market(s). 
 
c. Protection of Acquirer-1’s rights: The conversion was a consequence of the default 
by AESL, and hence Acquirer-1, to protect its rights and interests, was constrained 

 
 
 
Combination Registration No. C-2024/05/1142 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 14 
 
to convert the debentures into equity shares. Transaction 1 also improved AESL’s 
financial position, increasing the likelihood of meeting obligations to its creditors. 
(ii) 
Mitigating Circumstances: 
24. It is submitted that there are several mitigating and exonerating circumstances existing 
in this matter, which the Commission, in its discretion, may deem appropriate for a 
favourable view. These factors are outlined below and are relevant to the present case. 
 
a. Absence of Special Rights: Acquirer-1 has not entered into any shareholders’ 
agreement with AESL or its shareholders and accordingly does not enjoy any special 
contractual rights which are not available to an ordinary shareholder.  
 
b. Protection of Stakeholder Interests: Notably, the consummation of Transaction 1 was 
critical, important and absolutely necessary considering that it was safeguarding the 
future of almost 4 lakh students and more than 10,000 employees, which was put in 
jeopardy due to default by AESL on the debentures issued to it by the Acquirer-1. 
Despite facing financial challenges and potential legal proceedings, AESL’s 
continuation as a going concern is crucial for the future of its students and other 
stakeholders. Acquirer-1 was therefore constrained to convert its debentures into 
equity shares to reduce the financial burden of AESL, thereby ensuring its sustained 
operation for the benefit of students and staff.  
 
c. Transaction 1 did not result in any Appreciable Adverse on Competition (AAEC) in 
any markets in India: Transaction 1 did not result in any AAEC within any markets 
in India. The sole purpose behind Transaction 1 was to ensure that AESL remained 
operational, given its financial difficulties and the interests of various stakeholders, 
particularly students and employees.  
 
d. Acquirer-1 has acted in a bona fide manner: Acquirer-1 submits that its continued 
engagement 
with 
the 
Commission 
including 
through 
the 
pre-filing 

 
 
 
Combination Registration No. C-2024/05/1142 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 14 
 
consultations.demonstrates its bona fide endeavour of absolute transparency and 
cooperation with the Commission.  
 
25. Accordingly, Acquirer-1 requests the Commission to neither hold Acquirer-1 guilty of 
any contraventions of the Act nor impose any penalty on it. 
(iii) 
Submissions with respect to Transaction 2 by Acquirer 2: 
26. It is submitted that Transaction 2 was notified by Acquirer-2 on 09th May 2024 and the  
Commission’s prior approval was sought before taking any steps towards its 
consummation. Transaction 2 is yet to be consummated by Acquirer-2. Accordingly, 
there is no legal or factual basis for initiating any proceedings in relation to Transaction 
2. Only Transaction 1, involving the Acquirer-1's acquisition of 39.61% of AESL's equity 
share capital on a post-issue fully diluted basis, was completed prior to submitting the 
Notice to the Commission. Further, Acquirer-2 was neither a party to Transaction 1 nor 
acquired AESL’s shares through it. Therefore, there is no reason or factual basis to 
conclude that Acquirer-2 violated Section 6(2) or 6(2A) of the Act. 
(iv) 
Prayer 
27. Without prejudice to the foregoing, Acquirer-1 has requested the Commission to not 
impose any penalty on it for any alleged contravention of the Act that the Commission 
considers that Acquirer-1’s actions may have caused. Further, Acquirer-2 has requested 
the Commission to delete its name from the list of parties to the inquiry initiated pursuant 
to the SCN and/or hold that it has not contravened the provisions of Sections 6(2) and 
6(2A) of the Act. 
 
D. 
OBSERVATIONS OF THE COMMISSION 
 
28. The Commission has considered the material on record and heard the arguments of the 
learnedcounsel in the matter on 24th June 2025. Given the submissions made in the 

 
 
 
Combination Registration No. C-2024/05/1142 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 14 
 
Notice, the SCN Response and the arguments presented before it, the observations of the 
Commission on the issue of contravention of the provisions of Section 43A read with 
Section 6(2) and Section 6(2A) of the Actin the instant matter are set forth in following 
paras. 
 
Transaction – 1 
29. Upon perusal of theSCN Response and hearing the learned counsel in the matter, it is 
evident that Transaction 1 involving the acquisition of 39.61% of AESL's equity share 
capital by Acquirer-1 on a post-issue fully diluted basis was completed prior to 
submission of the notice to the Commission.Neither in the SCN response nor during the 
hearing the learned counsel has denied consummation of Transaction 1 prior to filing the 
notice with the Commission. The arguments have mainly been extended to consider the 
critical and extenuating circumstances underpinning Transaction 1 due to which 
Acquirer-1 was constrained to proceed with Transaction 1 without notifying to the 
Commission. Further, various mitigating and exonerating circumstances have also been 
outlined, such as,  absence of any special contractual rightsto Acquirer-1, conversion of 
debentures into equity shares being crucial for sustained operation of the Target for the 
benefit of students and other stakeholders, no AAEC from Transaction-1 within any 
markets in India and the Acquirers’ bona fide conduct of continued engagement with the 
Commission including through the pre-filing consultations, torequest the Commission to 
not hold Acquirer-1 guilty of any contraventions of the Act or impose penalty on it. 
 
30. It is pertinent to note that the merger control regime in India is mandatory andsuspensory 
in nature. This means that combinations are notifiable unless they can avail any 
exemptions and cannot be consummated, either entirely or in part, before an approval 
from the Commission has been obtained. Section 5 of the Competition Act provides the 
assets and turnover criteria for acquisitions of control, shares, voting rights or assets as 
well as mergers and amalgamations that amount to a combination. Section 6(2) of the 
Competition Act requires/ mandates parties to give notice in respect of their proposed 

 
 
 
Combination Registration No. C-2024/05/1142 
 
 
 
 
Page 12 of 14 
 
combination. Section 6(2A) of the Act provides that a combination notified to the 
Commission shall not come into effect for a period of 210 days 1from the date of 
notification or approval by the Commission, whichever is earlier. It is also pertinent to 
mention here thatthe mandatory regime for notifying a proposed combination to the 
Commission is applicable, irrespective of whether the combination causes AAEC in India 
or not.  
 
31. It is clear from the submissionsin the Notice that Transaction-1 was a notifiable 
transaction and was neither exempted by any Government of India notification nor 
covered under Schedule I of Competition Commission of India (Procedure in Regard to 
the Transaction of Business Relating to Combinations) Regulations, 2011 (Combination 
Regulations). Thus, it was incumbent upon the Acquirer-1 to be in conformity with all 
relevant provisions of the Act and applicable Regulations. However, there was 
consummation of Transaction-1 without filing notice and withoutapproval of the 
Commission.  
 
Transaction – 2 
32. With respect to Transaction 2, it is noted that the notice was filed in relation to the same 
before its consummation. Rather Transaction 2 is yet to be consummated even after the 
approval of the Commission. Thus, there appears to be no contravention of the provisions 
of the Act with respect to Transaction 2.  
 
E. 
CONTRAVENTION AND PENALTY 
 
33. In view of the foregoing, the Commission is of the opinion thatthere is contravention of 
the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 6 and sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of the 
Actby Acquirer-1 as a result of the consummation of the Transaction 1 prior to filing 
notice with the Commission. 
 
1Prior to issue of notification regarding coming into effect of relevant provisions of the sections i.e.,6 to 8 (both 
inclusive), 21 to 24 (both inclusive), 28, 30, 34 & 38 of the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2023. 

 
 
 
Combination Registration No. C-2024/05/1142 
 
 
 
 
Page 13 of 14 
 
 
34. It is to be noted that failure to give notice in accordance with sub-section (2) of Section 
6 of the Act attractspenalty under Section 43A of the Act. Section 43A2 of the Act states:  
 
“Power to impose penalty for non-furnishing of information on combinations 
43A. If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission under 
sub- section (2) of section 6, the Commission shall impose on such person or 
enterprise a penalty which may extend to one percent, of the total turnover or 
the assets, whichever is higher, of such a combination.” 
 
35. The Hon’ble Supreme Courtin‘Competition Commission of India v Thomas Cook (India) 
Ltd. & Anr.’3 has held that: “For   the   imposition   of penalty under section 43A, the 
action may not be mala fide in case there is a breach of the statutory provisions of the 
civil law, penalty is attracted simpliciter on its violation.” In terms of Section 43A of the 
Act, a maximum penalty of one per cent of the combined value of turnover of the Parties 
in India can be imposed.  
 
36. It is to be noted that Section 43A of the Act prescribes the maximum extent of penalty 
that can be levied for failure to file notice; however, the Commission can consider the 
conduct of the parties and circumstances of the case to arrive at an appropriate amount 
of penalty. 
 
37. In the instant matter, the consummation of Transaction-1 without filing a notice 
contravened the provisions of Section 43A read with Section 6(2) and Section 6(2A) of 
the Act and Combination Regulations. However, the Commission has considered the 
mitigatingcircumstances mentioned in para 24 above and the conduct of the parties 
 
2Prior to issue of notification regarding coming into effect of relevant provisions of the sections i.e.,6 to 8 (both 
inclusive), 21 to 24 (both inclusive), 28, 30, 34 & 38 of the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2023. 
3Civil Appeal No.13578 OF 2015 (17 April 2018) 

 
 
 
Combination Registration No. C-2024/05/1142 
 
 
 
 
Page 14 of 14 
 
whereby they disclosed the transaction voluntarily and extended cooperation and 
provided the material/documents as sought by the Commission.  
 
38. Thus, considering the facts and circumstances of the case and the conduct of the parties 
in the matter, the Commission decides to take a lenient view and impose a nominal 
penalty of INR 20,00,000 (INR Twenty Lakh only) in the matter. The penalty shall be 
paid within 60 days from the date of receipt of this order. 
 
39. It is made clear that nothing used in this order shall be deemed to be confidential or 
deemed to have been granted confidentiality, as the same has been used for the purposes 
of the Act in terms of the provisions contained in Section 57 thereof. 
 
40. The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Acquirers, accordingly. 
 
