 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/08/299) 
 
 
Page 1 of 11 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
14.09.2016 
 
Notice given under Section 6(2) of the Competition Act, 2002 (“Act”) by  
Hindustan Colas Private Limited: Combination Regn. No. C-2015/08/299  
 
Order under Section 43A of the Act 
 
1. 
On 21.08.2015, the Competition Commission of India (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Commission”) received a notice, under Section 6(2) of the Act, filed by Hindustan Colas 
Private Limited (“Hindustan Colas”/ “Acquirer”). The notice of combination was given 
pursuant to execution of the Sale and Purchase Agreement (“SPA”) between Hindustan Colas 
and Shell India Markets Private Limited (“SIMPL”) on 23.07.2015 (hereinafter Hindustan 
Colas and SIMPL are collectively referred to as the “Parties”). The combination relates to 
acquisition by Hindustan Colas of the Bitumen Business Plant (engaged in manufacturing of 
bitumen emulsion and modified bitumen products) of SIMPL located in Uluberia district of 
West Bengal (“Combination”). 
 
2. 
On 18.02.2016, the Commission considered and assessed the Combination and approved the 
same under Section 31(1) of the Act. 
 
Proceedings under Section 43A of the Act 
 
3. 
In terms of Section 6(2) of the Act, an enterprise, which proposes to enter into a combination, 
is required to give a notice to the Commission, disclosing the details of the proposed 
combination, within thirty days of execution of any agreement or other document for 
acquisition. Further, as per Section 6(2A) of the Act, no combination shall come into effect 
until 210 days have passed from the day on which the notice has been given to the Commission 
under Section 6(2) or the Commission has passed orders under Section 31 of the Act, 
whichever is earlier.  
 
4. 
The Commission observed that the Acquirer had paid a sum of Rs. 4,00,00,000/- (Rupees Four 
Crores Only) to SIMPL on the date of signing of the SPA and that the balance amount was to 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/08/299) 
 
 
Page 2 of 11 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
be paid on the date of completion of the Combination. It, therefore, appeared that the Parties 
had part-consummated the Combination even before a notice was given to the Commission 
under Section 6(2) of the Act. Accordingly, a show cause notice (“SCN”) was issued on 
27.04.2016 to the Acquirer under Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the 
Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009 (“General Regulations”). The 
SCN required the Acquirer to show cause, in writing, within 15 days of receipt of the same, as 
to why penalty, in terms of Section 43A of the Act, should not be imposed on it for failure to 
file notice for the Combination in accordance with Section 6(2) of the Act and consummating a 
part of the Combination before the expiry of time period stipulated under Section 6(2A) of the 
Act. The Acquirer filed its reply to the SCN on 12.05.2016 (“Response to SCN”) along with a 
request for oral hearing, in terms of Regulation 48 of the General Regulations. 
 
5. 
In its meeting held on 13.06.2016, the Commission considered the Response to SCN and 
decided to grant an oral hearing to the Acquirer. Accordingly, the Acquirer presented its case 
before the Commission on 12.07.2016 followed by written submission dated 18.07.2016. 
Following submissions were made by the Acquirer: 
 
5.1 
Hindustan Colas had complied with Section 6(2) of the Act by filing notice within the 
prescribed time limit of 30 days from the date of the SPA. 
 
5.2 
The payment of Rs. 4 Crores was envisaged in the SPA as refundable deposit in good faith and 
not as pre-payment of consideration. In this regard, the Acquirer referred to clauses 4.2.1 and 
4.4 of the SPA, which read as under: 
 
Clause 4.2.1 of the SPA: “The Consideration less Deposit, along with the other amounts listed 
in Clause 4.1above, shall be paid at Completion in immediately available cash funds through 
electronic funds transfer to the Seller's Account” 
 
Clause 4.4 of the SPA: “The Deposit shall be repayable by Seller to the Purchaser within 10 
days of occurrence of any of the following: 
(a) that this Agreement is terminated on or before 120 days from the date of this 
Agreement, as per Clause 3.6 above, on account of reasons solely attributable to 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/08/299) 
 
 
Page 3 of 11 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
non-receipt of approval from  Competition Commission of India and the consent to 
transfer from WBIDC, despite the best efforts of Purchaser . 
 
(b) that this Agreement is terminated on or before Long Stop Date as per Clause 3.6 
above, on account of reasons solely attributable to the Seller, in which case the 
Deposit shall be refunded together with interest on the Deposit at the Default Rate 
for the period commencing from the date of the Agreement”. 
 
It has been submitted that a harmonious reading of various clauses in the Agreement indicate 
that amount of Rs. 4 Crores paid by Hindustan Colas to SIMPL had to be refunded if the 
Commission’s approval was not received. It is further submitted that in the event of grant of 
approval by the Commission, the same would have been adjusted against the consideration.  
 
5.3 
In this regard, reference has been made to ‘Guidance for Analysis of Prior Consummation of 
Transaction’ issued by Administrative Council for Economic Defense (CADE), Brazil issued 
in May 2015 (“CADE Guidelines”) which lists certain instances which could be regarded as 
gun-jumping. In terms of the CADE guidelines, full or partial non-refundable payment of price 
/ purchase consideration, except for (i) down payments commonly used in commercial 
transactions; (ii) and deposit or payment into an escrow account; or (iii) break-up fees, may be 
considered as gun jumping. It has been submitted that the aforesaid deposit is akin to a ‘down 
payment’ or alternatively a payment in an escrow account since it was refundable and 
therefore, based on the CADE guidance note, the same cannot be considered as gun-jumping. 
 
5.4 
The Acquirer submitted that the refundable deposit had not resulted into any benefit or control 
to Hindustan Colas other than showcasing its commitment to SIMPL towards the Combination. 
It has been submitted that there were other potential buyers competing for the same asset, it 
was felt necessary and commercially expedient to pay this deposit to demonstrate their 
earnestness in acquiring the asset. 
 
5.5 
The Acquirer has made reference to various clauses in the SPA and submitted that the 
Combination could have been consummated only after two prime approvals, i.e., one from the 
Commission and the other from West Bengal Industrial Infrastructure Development 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/08/299) 
 
 
Page 4 of 11 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Corporation (“WBIIDC”). It has been further submitted that the communication of approval of 
the Combination by the Commission was made on 19.02.2016 and pursuant to the same, the 
process for consummation of Combination was started and the same was completed on 
07.03.2016. 
 
5.6 
In support of its submissions that the Combination was not consummated before the approval 
of the Commission, the Acquirer has submitted various documents including, inter-alia, (i) 
Transfer Note dated 07.03.2016 executed between the Parties; (ii) bank statement indicating 
payment of consideration less deposit on 05.03.2016; (iii) appointment letters dated 07.03.2016 
given to employees of SIMPL; (iv) copies of applications dated 23.02.2016 for excise and 
registration and dated 02.03.2016 for sales tax registration; and (iv) copy of tripartite lease 
agreement dated 22.03.2016 executed between the Parties and WBIIDC.  
 
5.7 
Further, it has been submitted that no step was taken for integration of businesses before 
receiving approval from the Commission. The Acquirer has submitted that there was no 
exchange of commercially sensitive information or ceasing or marketing in competition with 
each other during the waiting period. It was also stated that in terms of Combination, 
customers of SIMPL were not assigned to Hindustan Colas which implies lack of possibility of 
Hindustan Colas being able to exercise influence on SIMPL by using their customer 
information. In support of the assertion that both the Parties were carrying on business as usual 
without any interference, the Acquirer submitted yearly sales volumes of SIMPL for the period 
2013-2015 have been broadly consistent.  
 
5.8 
It has also been submitted that SIMPL had communicated with their customers introducing 
Hindustan Colas only after the approval was received from the Commission. The Acquirer 
submitted sample copies of communications made in this regard. 
 
5.9 
The Acquirer has made reference to some decisions of the Commission1 wherein penalties 
have been imposed under Section 43A of the Act. It has been stated that in all the referred 
cases, the action of the parties based on which penalty has been levied can be termed as 
                                                          
1Combination Regn No.C-2013-05-122 (Notice given by Etihad Airways and Jet Airways; Combination Regn No. 
C-2014-02-153 (Notice given by Thomas Cook (India) Limited, Thomas Cook Insurance Services (India) Limited 
and Sterling Holiday Resorts (India) Limited); and Combination Regn No. C-2014-05-175 (Notice given by SCM 
Soilfert Limited). 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/08/299) 
 
 
Page 5 of 11 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
strategic in nature and with intent to acquire control. The Acquirer has submitted that these two 
elements are not present in this case.  
 
5.10 The Acquirer has also made a reference to a decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the 
matter of M/s Hindustan Steel Ltd. V. State of Orissa2. In this case, Hon'ble Supreme Court 
held that "An order imposing penalty for failure to carry out a statutory obligation is the result 
of a quasi-criminal proceeding, and penalty will not ordinarily be imposed unless the party 
obliged either acted deliberately in defiance of law or was guilty of conduct contumacious or 
dishonest, or acted in conscious disregard of its obligation." It has been stated that these 
elements are not present in this case. 
 
5.11 The Acquirer submitted that they have demonstrated high sense of bona fide responsibility and 
made proper disclosures in the notice, including facts of total consideration and refundable 
deposit. The Acquirer further referred to various clauses of the SPA which provide for 
approval from the Commission as a primary requirement for consummation of the 
Combination and submitted that they had neither the intention to consummate nor had 
consummated the transaction prior to approval from the Commission. It has been submitted 
that the Acquirer exhibited promptness in responding to the queries from the Commission and 
were proactive in assisting the Commission. It has also been submitted that the Parties are 
committed to conduct business in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations and 
highest standards of business ethics and ethical conduct. Based on the aforesaid, the Acquirer 
requested the Commission to drop the penalty proceedings initiated under Section 43A of the 
Act. 
 
6. 
With respect to the above-mentioned submissions of the Acquirer, the Commission observed 
as under: 
 
6.1 
Regarding compliance with Section 6(2) of the Act, the Commission observed that going by 
the interpretation of Section 6(2) of the Act as given by the Acquirer, the parties to a 
combination would be free to consummate a combination or any part thereof before giving 
notice or after giving notice but without waiting for the expiry of period specified under 
                                                          
2(1969)2 SCC 627 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/08/299) 
 
 
Page 6 of 11 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Section 6(2A) of the Act as long as notice is filed within the time limit prescribed under 
Section 6(2) of the Act. In this regard, the Commission observed that it had considered and 
decided on a similar issue in Section 43A proceedings against Baxalta Incorporated3 (“Baxalta 
case”). The Commission, in the said case had observed that, 
 
“…the words “proposes” and “proposed” used in sub-section (2) of Section 6 have to be read 
in the context of sub-section (2A) of Section 6 (which suspends the consummation of the 
proposed combination for the period stated therein). Accordingly, till the expiry of the 210 
days from the date of filing of the notice or the Commission has passed an order under Section 
31 of the Act, whichever is earlier, a combination should remain a proposed combination and 
parties to the combination should not give effect to the combination. If the parties to the 
combination are allowed to give effect to the proposed combination either before filing of the 
notice with the Commission or after filing of the notice but before the expiry of the period 
given in sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of the Act, then it will tantamount to violation of sub-
section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. 
 
6.2 
The Hon’ble Competition Appellate Tribunal (“COMPAT”), while adjudicating the issue 
relating to ex-ante nature of notification under Section 6(2) of the Act in an appeal filed in 
relation to an order passed, under Section 43A of the Act, by the Commission in SCM Soilfert 
Limited and Deepak Fertilizers and Petrochemicals Corporation Limited4 (“SCM Case”) has 
observed, “The ex ante nature of notification under Section 6(2) is buttressed by a reading of 
sec. 6(2A) which deliberately used the phrase “no combination shall come into effect” until 
210 days from date of notice, or passing of order under Sec. 31.” 
 
6.3 
Further, the Hon’ble COMPAT in the SCM Case also pointed out why ex-ante notification is 
critical to the regulation of combinations. It observed, “It is essential that the Commission 
receive prior / ex-ante Notification of proposed combinations in order for it to effectively 
prevent anti-competitive acquisitions and mergers. A contrary reading of the Section so as to 
permit ex post facto notification would render the same nugatory. Unless the Commission has 
a chance to examine the anti-competitive effects of the proposed combination before it is 
                                                          
3 Baxalta Incorporated, Combination Regn. No. C-2015-07-297, Order under Section 43A of the Act dated 
08.03.2016 
4 Appeal No. 59/2015, COMPAT Order dated 30.08.2016 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/08/299) 
 
 
Page 7 of 11 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
consummated, it will lead to a scenario where an anti-competitive acquisition has already 
been given effect to thereby making unraveling of the transaction complex, or in some cases 
impossible where the acquisition of shares was done from the open market, as the sellers of the 
shares in such cases are anonymous and the shares” (emphasis added) 
 
6.4 
Based on the aforesaid observations of the Commission in Baxalta case and Hon’ble COMPAT 
in SCM Case, it is implied that a combined reading of standstill obligations of the parties to a 
combination, as envisaged under Section 6(2) and 6(2A) of the Act, is considered as the 
cornerstone of ex-ante combination regulation.  
    
6.5 
Further, it is important to note that consummating a part of a combination, before filing notice 
or after filing notice but before the expiry of period specified under Section 6(2A) of the Act, 
may, in substance, have impact similar to consummation of combination itself. Therefore, the 
observations regarding ex-ante notification requirement apply both to consummation of a 
proposed combination or any part thereof.   
 
6.6 
In view of the aforesaid, the Commission is of the considered view that submissions of the 
Acquirer that it had complied with Section 6(2) of the Act by filing notice within the 
prescribed time limit of 30 days from the date of the SPA are not tenable. The Commission, 
therefore, proceeded with examination of the issue of payment of part consideration before 
filing of notice for contravention of provisions of Section 6(2) of the Act.  
 
6.7 
The Commission noted the submissions of the Acquirer that the payment was made as 
refundable deposit in good faith and not as pre-payment of consideration and references made 
to clauses 4.2.1 and 4.4 of the SPA. In this regard, the Commission observed that the 
submissions of the Acquirer are self-contradictory. While it is stated that the payment was not 
envisaged to be made as pre-payment of consideration, the clause referred by the Acquirer 
points otherwise. Clause 4.2.1 referred by the Acquirer envisages payment of “Consideration 
less Deposit” at the time of completion, which clearly implies that the said deposit was actually 
payment of part consideration and not merely a refundable deposit made in good faith.  
 
6.8 
The Acquirer made reference to the CADE Guidelines and stated that the payment made by it 
is refundable in nature and similar to a down payment or a payment into an escrow account and 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/08/299) 
 
 
Page 8 of 11 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
exempt from the gun-jumping conduct as laid down in CADE Guidelines. The Commission, 
based on limited information available in public domain in respect of the CADE Guidelines, 
noted that the CADE Guidelines have been issued in May 2015 and attempt to provide clarity 
on issues such as (i) definition and characterisation of gun jumping; (ii) the procedures that can 
be adopted to mitigate the risks of an infringement; and (iii) penalties applicable to gun 
jumping.  
 
6.9 
The Commission observed that the CADE Guidelines referred by the Acquirer, while making a 
distinction between refundable and non-refundable payments, also recognize pre-payment of 
price as gun jumping, The Commission observed that while the distinction between refundable 
and non-refundable may have some merit in assessing the likelihood of reversion to the status 
quo ante in form, it may not be relevant from the perspective of potential competition 
distortions. The Commission noted that pre-payment of price (whether refundable/non-
refundable) may have a number of competition distorting effects viz., (i) it may lead to a 
strategic advantage for the Acquirer; (ii) it may reduce the incentive and will of ‘target’ to 
compete; and (iii) it may become a reason/basis to access the confidential information of the 
‘target’. On an overall basis, it may be said that pre-payment of consideration may have the 
impact of creating a tacit collusion which may cause an adverse effect on competition even 
before consummation of the combination. Thus, the Commission is of the opinion that what is 
important is pre-payment of consideration and solely the fact of the same being refundable or 
otherwise is not relevant.  
 
6.10 The Acquirer has also submitted that the payment made by it is equivalent to a ‘down 
payment’ or a payment in an ‘escrow account’. In this regard, the Commission noted that 
‘down payment’ is generally referred in context of commercial transactions in ordinary course 
of business and not in context of purchase/sale of business itself. As regards the payment being 
equivalent to money held in escrow account, the Commission observed that as the payment 
was made to SIMPL directly, there is no question of it being equivalent to money held in 
escrow account. Furthermore, Hon’ble COMPAT in SCM Case, on the issue of creation of 
escrow account and holding shares in an escrow account observed 
 
“The creation of an escrow account and the covenant by the Appellants of their own volition to 
abstain from exercising the voting rights, do not eliminate the statutory requirement of the 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/08/299) 
 
 
Page 9 of 11 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
prior notice. Therefore, we agree with the Respondent that the notification under section 6(2) 
of the Act has to be ex-ante.”  
 
The observations of COMPAT also point that the standstill obligations envisaged under 
Section 6(2) and 6(2A) are sacrosanct and any action on the part of the parties to a combination 
against the same attracts penalty under Section 43A of the Act. In view of the aforesaid, 
submissions of the Acquirer as regards payment being equivalent to a ‘down payment’ or 
‘payment in an escrow account’ are not material. 
 
6.11 The Acquirer further submitted that the refundable deposit had not resulted into any benefits or 
control to Hindustan Colas other than showcasing their commitment to SIMPL towards the 
Combination. It has also been submitted that there were other potential buyers competing for 
the same asset, it was felt necessary and commercially expedient to pay this deposit to 
demonstrate their earnestness in acquiring the asset. In this regard, as noted above, this type of 
arrangement is potentially likely to facilitate tacit collusion which is considered to be a worst 
form of collusion and therefore cannot be allowed. The Act mandates the Commission to 
examine combinations ex-ante and therefore the issues such as whether the parties actually 
benefitted or not from the impugned conduct or whether there were any commercial exigencies 
behind a particular conduct may not be relevant to the determination of provisions of Section 
6(2) and 6(2A) of the Act. 
 
6.12 The Acquirer has made references to suggest that the Combination was not consummated and 
no steps had been taken to integrate the businesses before the approval of the Commission. In 
this regard, the Commission observed that it has never been alleged that the entire 
Combination has been consummated, what was alleged was that pre-payment of consideration 
has the effect of consummating a part of the Combination before the approval of the 
Commission. Thus, the submissions of the Acquirer on this aspect are not considered as 
relevant. 
 
6.13 The Commission also noted the submissions of the Acquirer that in the past, penalty has been 
levied in cases where the actions of the parties can be termed as strategic in nature and had 
intent to acquire control. In this regard, the Commission observed that gun jumping takes many 
forms and pre-payment of consideration being one such form, has the potential to distort the 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/08/299) 
 
 
Page 10 of 11 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
competition dynamics of the markets as brought out in para 6.9 above. Considering that this is 
the first case of pre-payment of consideration and the Commission has deliberated on the 
relevant factors and elaborated the principles underlying its approach, submissions of the 
Acquirer regarding past decisions are not considered as relevant.  
 
6.14 As regards the issue of imposition of penalty, the Commission noted the submissions made by 
the Acquirer and its reference to the Hon’ble Supreme Court decision in M/s Hindustan Steel 
Ltd. V. State of Orissa. The Commission observed that case referred by the Acquirer relates to 
the state sales tax proceedings and importing a legal principle from a completely different law 
with different mandate and scope is not appropriate. In fact, Hon’ble COMPAT in SCM case, 
observed, in response to the same case cited by appellants, that this case is inapplicable in 
cases relating to imposition of civil liabilities.  
 
6.15 Thus, in view of the foregoing, the Commission observed that the payment of Rs. 4 crore by 
the Acquirer, by way of a refundable deposit amounts to pre-payment of consideration and 
consummating a part of the Combination before the approval of the same by the Commission 
and attracts penalty under Section 43A of the Act. Section 43A of the Act reads as under:  
 
“If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission under sub section(2) of 
section 6, the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a penalty which may 
extend to one percent of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, of such a 
combination.”  
 
7. 
As per the details provided by the Parties, the value of their worldwide assets and turnover for 
the year ending 31.12.2014, are as follows: 
 
Party 
Assets (Rs. Crore) 
Turnover (Rs. Crore) 
Hindustan Colas 
300.50 
887.85 
SIMPL 
2,925.40 
4,770.30 
Combined 
3,225.90 
5,658.15 
 
8. 
Accordingly, in terms of Section 43A of the Act, the Commission can levy a maximum penalty 
of one per cent of the combined value of worldwide turnover of the Parties i.e. Rs.56.58 Crore 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/08/299) 
 
 
Page 11 of 11 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
However, the Commission has sufficient discretion to consider the conduct of the Parties and 
the circumstances of the case to arrive at an appropriate amount of penalty. Accordingly, while 
determining the quantum of penalty, the Commission, apart from the size and scale of the 
Combination, considered the fact that the Acquirer had voluntarily filed the notice with the 
Commission along with disclosure that the aforesaid payment has been made to SIMPL and 
that the Acquirer has cooperated fully with the Commission. In view of the foregoing, the 
Commission considered it appropriate to impose a nominal penalty of INR 5,00,000/- (INR 
Five Lakhs only) on the Acquirer, which is approximately 0.0009 percent of the combined 
value of turnover of the Parties. The Acquirer shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from 
the date of receipt of this order.  
 
9. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Acquirer accordingly. 
 
 
