 
Page 1 of 9 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
                           COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/12/347) 
 
 
 
 
 
16.08.2016 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 in relation to combination registration 
no. C-2015/12/347 
 
 
Coram 
 
Mr. S. L. Bunker 
Member 
 
Mr. Augustine Peter 
Member 
 
Mr. U. C. Nahta 
Member 
 
Mr. M. S. Sahoo 
Member 
 
   
Legal Representatives: Shri Raj Shekhar Rao, Shri Ram Kumar and Shri Avinash Amarnath. 
 
 
1. On 4th December 2015, the Competition Commission of India (hereinafter referred to 
as the “Commission”) received a notice from SRF Ltd. (“Acquirer”) regarding its 
acquisition of pharma grade HFC 134a Fluorochemical propellants business 
(‘’Relevant business’’) of E.I. Du Pont De Nemours and Company (“DuPont”).  
 
2. The combination was notified to the Commission after initiation of an inquiry under 
sub-section (1) of Section 20 of the Competition Act, 2002 (“Act”) (“Inquiry”). 
(Hereinafter, Acquirer and DuPont shall together be referred to as the “Parties”). The 
Commission considered and approved the combination under sub-section (1) of 
section 31 of the Act on 4th February 2016. The said decision was taken without 
prejudice to any penalty which may be imposed or any prosecution which may be 
initiated against the Acquirer in accordance with the provision of the Act.  

COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
                                       (Combination Registration No. C-2015/12/347) 
Page 2 of 9 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
3. It has been noted that the Parties entered into a Commercial Assets Sale and IP License 
Agreement (“Agreement”) on 31st December, 2014. In order to determine whether the 
transaction was a combination under the relevant provisions of the Act, a 
communication under sub-section (1) of Section 20 of the Act was issued to the 
Acquirer on 20th August 2015, the response to which was received on 30th October 
2015, along with the requisite information and copies of the agreements pertaining to 
the combination. In its meeting held on 8th December 2015, the Commission noted the 
response submitted by Acquirer and observed that the combination meets the 
jurisdictional thresholds in terms of Section 5 of the Act. Accordingly, the said 
combination ought to have been notified to the Commission in terms of sub-section (2) 
of Section 6 of the Act, within the prescribed timelines. In the meantime, Acquirer filed 
the notice on 4th December 2015, before a direction was issued by the Commission in 
terms of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 8 of the Competition Commission of India 
(Procedure in regard to the transaction of business relating to combinations) 
Regulations, 2011. (‘Combination Regulations’). The Commission also observed that 
the closing of the transaction took place on the 31st December 2014. 
 
4. In view of the foregoing, it prima facie appeared that the Acquirer not only failed to 
give the notice of the combination with in the time stipulated under sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 but also consummated the same before giving notice to the Commission, in 
contravention of sub-section (2) of section 6 read with sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of 
the Act.  In its meeting held on 4th February 2016, the Commission, decided to initiate 
proceedings under Section 43A of the Act. Accordingly, a show cause notice (‘SCN’) 
was issued to the Acquirer under Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the 
Competition 
Commission 
of 
India 
(General) 
Regulations, 
2009 
(“General 
Regulations”), to explain, in writing, within 15 days of the receipt of such 
communication as to why penalty, in terms of Section 43A of the Act, should not be 
imposed on Acquirer for failure to file a notice in respect of the combination under 
sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. The Acquirer submitted the response to the SCN 
with the Commission on 11th March 2016. (“Response to SCN”). In the said Response 
to SCN, Acquirer also requested for a personal hearing to explain its position in the 
matter. 

COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
                                       (Combination Registration No. C-2015/12/347) 
Page 3 of 9 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
5. The Commission, in its meeting held on 27th July 2016, considered the Response to 
SCN and decided to grant a hearing to Acquirer to present its case. Accordingly, the 
authorized representatives of the Acquirer presented their case on 16th August 2016.  
 
6. Following submission,  written as well as oral, have been put forth by the Acquirer: 
 
6.1 Acquirer was under a bona fide belief that assets and turnover of the Relevant 
business to be considered for purpose of calculating thresholds (‘deminimis 
thresholds’), prescribed by the notification S.O. 482(E) dated 4th March 2011 
(‘deminimis notification’) issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, 
Government of India (‘MCA, GoI’), and not the entire assets and turnover of the 
DuPont. The total turnover of the Relevant business being acquired in India was 
below the deminimis thresholds. It was also submitted that combination also did 
not meet the revised deminimis thresholds issued by MCA GoI vide Notification 
S.O. 674 (E) dated 4th March 2016. Therefore, the combination was not reportable to 
the Commission. 
 
6.2 Despite the bona fide understanding that the combination was not reportable, 
pursuant to the Commission’s letter dated 20th August 2015, legal advice was 
tendered to the Acquirer that the Commission might consider the transaction to be 
a notifiable combination. Accordingly, in the interests of full disclosure and to 
establish the Parties’ bona fide intentions to comply with the Act, the notice was 
filed voluntarily and even prior to the Commission arriving at any conclusion with 
respect to the reportability of the transaction. Further, there has been no attempt at 
any stage to evade the Commission’s jurisdiction. 
 
6.3 The Commission approved the combination unconditionally, thereby affirming 
that the combination had no effect on competition in India considering that the 
transaction was of miniscule value. 
 
6.4 The Parties have been transparent throughout the proceedings and duly disclosed 
all the relevant documents to the Commission and there was no effort whatsoever 
to conceal the combination or any related information from the Commission. 

COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
                                       (Combination Registration No. C-2015/12/347) 
Page 4 of 9 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
6.5 The transaction did not require filing in the United States of America (‘USA’) 
shows that it is a small transaction with no effect on competition.  
 
7. In view of the above submissions, the Acquirer has submitted that as the transaction 
was not reportable, no penalty be levied on it. It has also been submitted that 
notwithstanding the above, if a penalty is imposed, such penalty should only be 
nominal as the combination had no effect in the relevant market in India and the 
Parties had a bona fide belief that the transaction did not require a notification. 
Further, only the assets and turnover of the Relevant business being acquired be taken 
into consideration for  the purposes of penalty to be levied, if any and the same would 
also be in accordance with the ruling of the Competition Appellate Tribunal 
(“COMPAT”) on the aspect of turnover which should be considered for the purposes 
of imposing penalty. In this regard, Acquirer has quoted the extract of Hiranandani 
Hospital v. CCI and Ramakant Kini, wherein the COMPAT observed that: “At the cost of 
repetition, it deserves to be emphasised that the appellant has been providing multiple 
healthcare services, maternity service being one of them and stem cell banking which is being 
provided by a third party (Cryobanks), can at best be considered as a small part of the maternity 
services provided to those who are desirous of availing such services. Therefore, even if the 
finding of the majority of the Commission that the agreement entered into between the 
appellant and Cryobanks is violative of Section 3(1) of the Act is to be upheld, the turnover of 
the appellant with reference to stem cell banking services only could be taken into consideration 
for the purpose of imposing penalty and not the turnover with reference to other services or 
income derived from other sources”. 
 
8. The Commission has examined and analysed the submissions of the Acquirer and 
observes as under:  
 
8.1 Section 5 (a) of the Act covers the transactions relating to the acquisition of assets, 
shares and voting rights of an enterprise and lays down in very clear and 
unambiguous terms that the parties to an acquisition, being the acquirer and the 
enterprise, whose control, shares, voting rights or assets have been acquired or are 

COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
                                       (Combination Registration No. C-2015/12/347) 
Page 5 of 9 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
being acquired jointly have either, in India, the assets of the value of more than 
rupees two thousand crores or turnover more than rupees six thousand crores. 
 
8.2 Moreover, deminimis notification also states, in very clear terms, that assets and 
turnover of the enterprise whose control, shares, voting rights or assets are being 
acquired, be considered for the purposes of thresholds, as set out in deminimis 
notification, and not of the value of assets and turnover of the segment / particular 
business, being acquired. The deminimis notification1 reads as under: 
 
“In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of Section 54 of the Act, the Central 
Government, in public interest, hereby exempts an enterprise, whose control, shares, voting 
rights or assets are being acquired has either assets of the value of not more than INR 250 
crore in India or turnover of not more than INR 750 crore in India from the provisions of 
Section 5 of the said Act for a period of five years” 
 
8.3 The term “enterprise”, as defined under clause (h) of Section 2 of the Act, means “a 
person or a department of government…” Further, the term “person” in terms of clause 
(l) of Section 2 of the Act has been defined as follows:  
“person” includes—  
(i) an individual;  
(ii) a Hindu undivided family;  
(iii) a company  
 
(iv) a firm;  
(v) an association of persons or a body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, in India 
or outside India; or  
(vi) any corporation established by or under any Central, State or Provincial Act or a 
Government company as defined in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);  
(vii) any body corporate incorporated by or under the laws of a country outside India;  
(viii) co-operative society registered under any law relating to cooperative societies;  
                                                          
1 Government of India vide Notification S.O. 674 (E) dated 4th March 2016, revised deminimis thresholds to 
INR 1000 crores for turnover in India and INR 350 crore for assets in India.  
 

COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
                                       (Combination Registration No. C-2015/12/347) 
Page 6 of 9 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
(ix) a local authority;  
(x) every artificial juridical person, not falling within any of the preceding sub-clauses”. 
  
8.4 A plain reading of all the categories covered under the definition of a “person” 
suggests that only an entity which has separate legal personality is covered under 
the term “person”. A business division of an enterprise, such as Relevant business, 
is not an artificial juridical person as it does not have a distinct legal personality 
from that of the enterprise which houses the business division/segment. Thus, a 
business division/segment is neither covered in any of the sub-clauses from (i) to 
(ix) as mentioned above nor is covered under sub-clause (x) as it does not have a 
separate legal/juristic personality.  
 
8.5 DuPont is a company, incorporated under the laws of USA and qualifies as a 
“person” under sub-clause (vii) of clause (l) of Section 2 of the Act. It cannot be 
accepted that Relevant business, which is a part of DuPont, is also separately 
covered under the definition of “person”. 
 
8.6 For reasons discussed above, the Commission is of the considered view that the 
business divisions and/or units do not qualify as person or enterprise. 
Accordingly, Relevant business, being one of the several businesses of DuPont is 
not a person and therefore, not an enterprise. Thus, the argument that the assets 
and turnover of Relevant business being acquired be considered as an “enterprise” 
for the purpose of exemption on account of deminimis notification, is incorrect and 
deserves to be rejected.  
 
8.7 As the deminimis notification is also to be reckoned at the enterprises level, the 
assets and turnover of DuPont in India are to be considered. It is noted from the 
information provided in the notice filed, that value of assets and turnover of 
DuPont for the financial year preceding the date of execution of Agreement 
exceeds the value of assets and turnover set out in the deminimis notification. 
 
8.8 In view of the above, the Commission holds that the combination was a reportable 
transaction.  

COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
                                       (Combination Registration No. C-2015/12/347) 
Page 7 of 9 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
8.9 The Acquirer’s arguments that transaction is of small value and there was no 
effect on competition in India, cannot be accepted as a ground for not filing a 
combination meeting thresholds prescribed under section 5 of the Act and 
exceeding the deminimis thresholds. Further, the Act casts a duty on the Parties 
entering into a combination to report the same by following procedure prescribed 
under relevant provisions of the Act and Combination Regulations. 
  
8.10 With regards to the contention of the Acquirer that the combination was notified 
voluntarily and even prior to the Commission arriving at any conclusion, it is 
noted that combination was reported only after an inquiry under Section 20 (1) was 
initiated by the Commission.  
 
 
9. In view of the foregoing, the Commission is of the opinion that the combination meets 
the thresholds prescribed under Section 5 of the Act and therefore, the acquisition of 
Relevant business by Acquirer was notifiable to the Commission in terms of the 
provision of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. Further, the said combination is not 
covered by the deminimis notification. In this regard, it is noted that sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 of the Act reads as under:  
 
“…… any person or enterprise, who or which proposes to enter into a combination, shall give 
notice to the Commission………. disclosing the details of the proposed combination, within 
thirty days of…….… execution of any agreement or other document for acquisition referred to 
in clause (a) of section 5 or acquiring of control referred to in clause (b) of that section”. 
 
10. The Commission also noted that the parties had given effect to the combination before 
reporting the same to the Commission. In this regard, sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of 
the Act reads as under: 
  
“No combination shall come into effect until two hundred and ten days have passed from 
the day on which the notice has been given to the Commission under sub-section (2) or the 
Commission has passed orders under section 31, whichever is earlier”. 
 


COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
                                       (Combination Registration No. C-2015/12/347) 
Page 9 of 9 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
USD 52,390 million (approximately INR 3,40,000 Crore). However, the Commission 
has sufficient discretion to consider the conduct of the Parties and the circumstances of 
the case to arrive at an appropriate amount of penalty. Accordingly, the Commission 
has considered totality of factors while determining the quantum of penalty. In view of 
the foregoing, applying the principles of proportionality, the Commission considers it 
appropriate to impose a penalty of INR 1,000,000/- (INR one million only) on the 
Acquirer, which is approximately 0.00003 per cent of the combined value of 
worldwide assets of the Parties.  
 
15. The Acquirer shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of 
this order.  
 
16. The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Acquirer accordingly.  
 
 
