     
                                                                                                            Page 1 of 7 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
2nd May 2022 
Proceedings against Allcargo Logistics Limited under Section 43A of the Competition 
Act, 2002 
CORAM:  
 
Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta 
Chairperson 
 
Ms. Sangeeta Verma 
Member 
 
Mr. Bhagwant Singh Bishnoi  
Member 
Appearances  
For Allcargo Logistics Limited :  Mr. Gopal Jain, Ld. Sr. Advocate, Ms. Nandini Gore, 
Advocate, Ms. Neha Khandelwal, Advocate, Mr. Kaiwan 
Kalyaniwalla, Authorized Representative, Ms. Shweta 
Kesarkar, Authorized Representative. 
 
ORDER UNDER SECTIONS 43A OF THE COMPETITION ACT, 2002 
1. This Order shall dispose of the proceedings under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 
2002 (Act) against Allcargo Logistics Limited (Allcargo/Acquirer) regarding acquisition 
of 46.86% of the equity share capital in GATI Ltd. (GATI/Target).  
 
Background 
2. The Commission had observed from the information available in the public domain that 
Allcargo had acquired 46.86% of the equity share capital of GATI without giving a notice 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 2 of 7 
 
to the Commission in terms of Section 6(2) of the Act.  On 30th December 2020, the 
Commission issued a letter to Allcargo initiating an inquiry under Section 20(1) of the 
Act in relation to acquisition of shares of GATI and directed it to furnish certain details 
regarding the said transaction.  
3. Allcargo, in its response dated 29th January 2021, inter alia, confirmed the acquisition and 
explained that the transaction was not notified to the Commission, because the same was 
considered to be covered by the exemption set forth in the Ministry of Corporate Affairs‟ 
Notification No. S.O.988 (E) dated 27th March 2017 (Target Exemption).  
4. However, upon examination of the submissions of Allcargo, it was observed that Allcargo 
had considered the assets and turnover of only the target on a standalone basis and not the 
target group, as required in terms of the definition of „enterprise‟ in the Act. It is pertinent 
to note that, in Section 2(h) of the Act, „enterprise‟ is defined as: “a person or a 
department of the Government, who or which is, or has been, engaged in any activity, 
relating to the production, storage, supply, distribution, acquisition or control of articles 
or goods, or the provision of services, of any kind, or in investment, or in the business of 
acquiring, holding, underwriting or dealing with shares, debentures or other securities of 
any other body corporate, either directly or through one or more of its units or divisions 
or subsidiaries, whether such unit or division or subsidiary is located at the same place 
where the enterprise is located or at a different place or at different places, but does not 
include any activity of the Government relatable to the sovereign functions of the 
Government including all activities carried on by the departments of the Central 
Government dealing with atomic energy, currency, defence and space.” 
5. Thus, based on the above definition, it was found that Allcargo ought to have considered 
the target „enterprise‟ as „target consolidated with its subsidiaries‟ and not on a standalone 
basis. It was observed that if the target „enterprise‟ was considered to be „target 
consolidated with its subsidiaries‟, the Target Exemption may not be applicable.  
6. Since, upon examination of the information available on record, the information was not 
found sufficient for taking a definitive view, the Commission, vide letter dated 14th July 
2021, sought further details from Allcargo, such as: (i) audited consolidated assets and 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 3 of 7 
 
turnover of the target, (ii) turnover of the target and its group entities operating in India, 
and (iii) the rights acquired by Allcargo in GATI. The response to the same was received 
on 27th July 2021.  
Initiation of proceedings and issue of SCN 
7. The Commission, in its meeting held on 25th October 2021, considered the material on 
record, including Allcargo‟s submissions dated 29th January 2021 and 27th July 2021, and 
noted that, upon inclusion of the subsidiaries of the Target, the exemption in the form of 
Target Exemption would not be available.  
8. Thus, the Commission took the prima facie view that the above acquisition is a 
combination and that the Target Exemption was not applicable to the same. 
Consequently, the notification of the said acquisition was mandatory. Thus, Allcargo 
ought to have given a notice to the Commission in terms of Section 6(2) of the Act read 
with Regulation 5 of the Competition Commission of India (Procedure in Regard to the 
Transaction of Business relating to Commission) Regulations, 2011 (Combination 
Regulations, 2011). However, Allcargo failed to comply with such requirement.  
9. In view of the above, the Commission decided issue a show cause notice vide its letter 
dated 9th November 2021 to Allcargo under Section 20(1) and 43A of the Act read with 
Regulation 8(2) of the Combination Regulations. 2011 and Regulation 48 of the 
Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009 (CCI General 
Regulations, 2009) to explain, in writing, why Allcargo should not be found in 
contravention of the obligation contained in Section 6(2) of the Act and why no penalty in 
terms of Section 43A of the Act shall be imposed. Allcargo was also asked to explain in 
writing why the Commission should not direct Allcargo to give notice in terms of 
Regulation 8(2) of the Combination Regulations.  
10. On 6th January 2022, Allcargo submitted its response after grant of extension by the 
Commission (Response-I). The Commission, in its meeting held on 20th January 2022, 
considered Response-I received from Allcargo. The Commission also considered 
Allcargo‟s request for grant of oral hearing and decided to allow the same. Accordingly, 
Allcargo was directed to appear before the Commission for hearing on 9th February 2022.  

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 4 of 7 
 
11. On 9th February 2022, the Commission heard Allcargo at length. The Commission further 
allowed Allcargo to file its written submissions, which were received on 9th February 
2022.  
Brief Description of the Parties 
12. Allcargo is a public listed company incorporated in India. The principal activity of 
Allcargo along with its subsidiaries is providing integrated logistics solutions. It offers 
specialised logistics services across four business segments: Multimodal Transport 
Operations, Container Freight Station Operations, Project and Engineering Solutions, and 
Warehousing & Logistics Park.  
13.  GATI is a public listed company incorporated in India, primarily engaged, directly or 
indirectly through its subsidiaries, in the business of express distribution (surface, air and 
rail parcel), supply chain management solutions, value added transportation solutions, e-
commerce logistics, and operation of fuel stations. In the express business, it involves the 
transport of goods for domestic requirements between two locations within India.  
Submissions of Allcargo 
14. The contentions and arguments of Allcargo can be broadly summarised as under:  
(a) That the acquisition has no “Appreciable Adverse Effect” on Competition, or 
prejudice the interests of consumers, or affect freedom of trade in Indian markets.  
(b) That the acquisition is exempted from the provisions of Section 5 and 6 of the Act, as 
it is covered by the Target Exemption.  
(c) That the services provided by Allcargo and GATI in the logistics sector are distinct 
and exclusive of each other; while Allcargo is engaged in heavyweight logistics 
services, GATI is engaged in express, door-to-door, and lightweight logistics 
services. 
(d) That Allcargo and GATI continue to provide independent services in different market 
segments.  

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 5 of 7 
 
(e) That the acquisition has not resulted in Allcargo gaining dominant position in the 
relevant market.  
(f) That there is the presence of other competitors for both GATI and Allcargo. 
(g) That the technical or venial breach of provisions of the Act was committed from a 
bona fide belief that benefit of Target Exemption was available to Allcargo in 
relation to the said acquisition, and Allcargo was exempted from compliance under 
Section 6 of the Act.  
(h) That Allcargo has neither acted deliberately in defiance of law nor acted in conscious 
disregard of its obligation. Thus, Allcargo should not be subjected to penalty for a 
technical error under a bona fide belief that does not result breach of the 
objective/preamble of the Act.  
Commission’s Analysis and Finding 
15. The Commission has considered the submissions of Allcargo as well as heard the 
arguments advanced by the learned counsel. It is observed that prior to acquisition of 
46.86% stake in GATI by Allcargo, there was an obligation upon Allcargo to file a notice 
under Section 6(2) of the Act. However, it completed the purchase of shares resulting in 
acquisition of 46.86% in GATI without filing any notice with the Commission. Therefore, 
the issue for determination in relation to the SCN issued to Allcargo is: “Whether 
Allcargo, by acquisition of shares of GATI without filing a notice under Section 6(2) of 
the Act, has contravened the provisions of Section 6(2A) of the Act and is, hence, liable 
for penalty under Section 43A of the Act”.  
16. Section 5 of the Act states that the acquisition of one or more enterprises by one or more 
persons or merger or amalgamation of enterprises shall be a combination of such 
enterprises and persons or enterprises if the combining parties exceed the thresholds set in 
the Act. The thresholds are specified in the Act in terms of assets or turnover in India and 
abroad. Further, Section 6(2) of the Act provides that the parties proposing to enter into a 
combination shall give a notice to the Commission and, as per Section 6(2A) of the Act, 
“No combination shall come into effect until two hundred and ten days have passed from 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 6 of 7 
 
the day on which the notice has been given to the Commission under sub-section (2) or 
the Commission has passed orders under Section 31, whichever is earlier.” 
17. Based on the submissions, it is noted that Allcargo had entered into Share Purchase 
Agreements and Share Subscription Agreement with GATI on 5th December 2019 and 
completed the acquisition of 46.86% shares (including through market purchases/open 
offer during said period) of GATI by April 2020, without filing notice with the 
Commission. In its defence, Allcargo has submitted that it was under a bona fide belief 
that the benefit of Target Exemption was available to it in relation to the said acquisition.   
However, it appears that Allcargo had made an erroneous assumption, because if it had 
considered the assets and turnover of the target group on a consolidated basis instead of 
standalone as required under the Act, it would have been clear that the Target Exemption 
was not available for the said transaction.  
18. Further, in relation to Allcargo‟s submission that the said transaction did not result in 
Appreciable Adverse Effect on Competition (AAEC) in India, it is pertinent to note that 
the mandatory regime for notifying a proposed combination to the Commission is 
applicable, irrespective of whether the combination causes any AAEC in India or not. In 
this regard, the Commission, in its order relating to penalty proceedings under Section 
43A of the Act against Intellect Design Arena Limited, has already observed: “…. the Act 
clearly provides, irrespective of whether there is any appreciable adverse effect on 
Competition in India or not, there is mandatory regime for notifying a combination to the 
Commission.”  
19. In view of the foregoing, it emerges that Allcargo, by acquisition of shares of GATI 
without filing a notice with the Commission in terms of Section 6(2) of the Act prior to 
acquisition, has contravened the provisions of Section 6(2A) of the Act, and hence, is 
liable to a penalty under Section 43A of the Act, which reads as under: 
“If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission under sub-
section (2) of Section 6, the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a 
penalty which may extend to one per cent of the total turnover or assets, whichever is 
higher, of such a combination.”  

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 7 of 7 
 
20. It is to be noted that Section 43A of the Act prescribes the extent of penalty that can be 
levied for failure to file notice; however, the Commission has sufficient discretion to 
consider the conduct of the parties and circumstances of the case to arrive at an 
appropriate amount of penalty. 
21. In the instant matter, the Commission finds that the conduct of Allcargo, whereby it 
extended cooperation during the inquiry and supplied requisite material/documents in 
response to the information requirement of the Commission, can be considered as 
mitigating factors. While the Commission acknowledges that Allcargo has been 
cooperative through the course of the proceedings, it cannot be exculpated of the 
statutory obligation to file notice with the Commission prior to the consummation of the 
proposed combination. 
22. Thus, considering the facts and circumstances of the case and the conduct of Allcargo, the 
Commission decides to take a lenient view and imposes a penalty of INR Twenty Lakhs 
(INR 20,00,000/-) on Allcargo. Allcargo shall pay the penalty within 60 days from the 
date of receipt of this order 
23. The Secretary is directed to inform Allcargo, accordingly. 
