 
 
 
Page 1 of 11 
 
 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
Ref. No. M&A/2022/11/01(03)/CD 
NON-CONFIDENTIAL 
 
8th January 2026 
 
In re: Proceedings against Allcargo Logistics Limited under Section 43A of the 
Competition Act, 2002 
 
CORAM:  
Ms. Ravneet Kaur 
Chairperson 
 
Mr. Anil Agrawal 
Member 
 
Ms. Sweta Kakkad 
Member 
 
Mr. Deepak Anurag 
Member 
 
Appearances during the hearing 
 
For Allcargo Logistics Limited 
 
Mr. Dhruv Rajain, Ms. Ananya Mahant, Mr. Varun 
Singh, Advocates 
Mr. Bhardwaj Pandya, Vice President (Head) – 
Legal (Group), Allcargo Logistics Limited 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
1. 
This order shall dispose of the proceedings against Allcargo Logistics Limited 
(Allcargo), under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 (Act) in relation to 
acquisition of 30 % stake in Gati-Kintetsu Express Private Limited1 (Gati 
 
1 The name of the company was changed on 27th July 2023 as Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited. 

 
       
 
 
Page 2 of 11 
 
Express/Target) by Allcargo from KWE-Kintetsu World Express (S) Pte. Ltd. (KWE 
Singapore) and KWE Kintetsu Express (India) Private Limited (KWE India) 
(collectively, ‘KWE’) [Transaction]. Allcargo Gati Limited (AGL) is a subsidiary 
company of, and under the management and control of Allcargo. AGL held remaining 
70 % stake in Gati Express. Accordingly, the Transaction resulted in Allcargo owning 
100 % of the Target, directly or indirectly. 
 
I. 
Initiation of proceedings under Section 43A of the Act 
 
2. 
The Competition Commission of India (Commission) in its meeting held on 18th July 
2024 had noted that as per information available in public domain, Allcargo had 
completed the Transaction. Accordingly, the Commission directed AGL to furnish 
certain information and documents in relation to the Transaction under Section 36(4) 
of the Act to assess whether further proceeding is required under Section 20(1) and/or 
Section 43A of the Act. The directions of the Commission were communicated to AGL 
vide letter dated 25th July 2024 (Section 36(4) Directions). AGL submitted the response 
to Section 36(4) directions on 23rd August 2024 (Response). 
 
3. 
In its meeting held on 24th December 2024, the Commission considered the Response 
and made the following observations:  
 
• Prior to 8th June 2023, AGL held 70 % stake in Gati Express and KWE held balance 
30 % stake. 
• The Board of Directors of Allcargo, the ultimate holding company of Gati Express, 
at their meeting held on 9th November 2022 approved the Transaction and, in this 
regard, signed the Share Purchase Agreement on 27th March 2023 (SPA) with 
KWE.  
• The Transaction was concluded on 8th June 2023. 
• The Transaction meets the jurisdictional thresholds prescribed under Section 5 of 
the Act. 
 

 
       
 
 
Page 3 of 11 
 
4. 
The Commission further examined the Transaction for being covered under Schedule I 
of the Competition Commission of India (Procedure in regard to the transaction of 
business relating to combinations) Regulations, 2011 (Combination Regulations, 
2011) which specifies certain categories of combinations which are ordinarily not likely 
to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition (AAEC) in India and 
accordingly, notice for the same under Section 6(2) of the Act need not normally be 
filed. The Commission observed that the subject matter of the Transaction needs to be 
considered for conformity with Item 2 of Schedule I of the Combination Regulations, 
2011, which reads, 
 
"An acquisition of shares or voting rights, referred to in sub-clause (i) or sub-clause 
(ii) of clause (a) of section 5 of the Act, where the acquirer, prior to acquisition, has 
fifty percent (50%) or more shares or voting rights in the enterprise whose shares or 
voting rights are being acquired, except in the cases where the transaction results in 
transfer from joint control to sole control. " 
 
5. 
The Commission observed that as Allcargo indirectly held more than 50 % shareholding 
in Gati Express, the crux of the issue of requirement to notify the Transaction hinges on 
change in control over Gati Express from joint control to sole control. In this regard, as 
a part of Response, it was stated that by Allcargo acquiring a minority stake of KWE in 
Gati Express, no change in the management and control of Gati Express has taken place 
considering that Allcargo is already a majority shareholder (by virtue of AGL’s 70 % 
stake in Gati Express) and in any event manages and controls Gati Express. 
 
6. 
The Commission observed that ‘control’ is a matter of degree and can be expressed as 
positive control or majority control, negative control, sole control, joint control etc. 
Further, control can be gained either by negotiating and acquiring control conferring 
rights under the inter se agreements/arrangements between the parties or by acquiring a 
shareholding which by itself is sufficient to confer control. As regards the Transaction, 
the Commission observed that without prejudice to any control conferring rights that 
KWE might have had in terms of their agreements/arrangements, it appears that while 
Allcargo did have majority control over Gati Express but as the shareholding of KWE 

 
       
 
 
Page 4 of 11 
 
exceeded 25 %, it also follows that KWE had the ability to 'veto' the decisions which 
required passing of special resolution as conferred by the Companies Act, 2013. This 
ability of KWE raises presumption of its 'negative control' over Gati Express and 
resultantly Gati Express prior to the Transaction appears to be under the joint control of 
Allcargo and KWE, and with the Transaction, Allcargo's control over Gati Express 
appears to have changed from majority but joint control (with more than 50 % existing 
shareholding) to sole control.  
 
7. 
Accordingly, the Commission formed a prima facie view that the submission of AGL 
that by Allcargo acquiring a minority stake of KWE in Gati Express, no change in the 
management and control of Gati Express has taken place, does not appear to be correct. 
Further, the Transaction does not appear to be in conformity with Item 2 of Schedule I 
of the Combination Regulations, 2011 and therefore a notice under Section 6(2) of the 
Act should have been filed by Allcargo before the consummation of Transaction.  
 
8. 
On the basis of the aforesaid, the Commission directed to issue a show cause notice to 
Allcargo under Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the Competition 
Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009. Pursuant to direction of the 
Commission, a show cause notice was issued to Allcargo on 9th January 2025 (SCN) 
vide which it was called upon to show cause, in writing, within fifteen (15) days of the 
receipt of the SCN as to why penalty should not be imposed upon it, in terms of Section 
43A of the Act for failure to file notice for the Transaction in terms of Section 6(2) of 
the Act.  
 
II. Submissions of Allcargo  
 
9. 
Allcargo filed the response to the SCN on 27th February 2025 after seeking an extension 
of time, along with a request for an oral hearing in the matter (Response to SCN). The 
Commission heard Allcargo at length on 16th September 2025 (Oral Hearing). The key 
submissions made by Allcargo as part of the Response to SCN and Oral Hearing are set 
out below. 
 
 

 
       
 
 
Page 5 of 11 
 
Allcargo had decisive control/sole control over Gati Express prior to the Transaction  
 
10. 
Allcargo submitted that it was of the bona fide view that the Transaction does not trigger 
the requirement of filing a notice with the Commission since AGL (being a subsidiary 
of Allcargo) exercised decisive control over the Target, and hence, as a result of the 
Transaction, there was no change in the degree of control that rested with Allcargo. In 
this regard, Allcargo, inter alia, made the following supporting submissions: 
• KWE, in practice and in essence, did not exercise any influence over the affairs 
or management of the Target and was merely an investor. 
• The Shareholder’s Agreement (SHA) of Gati express defines KWE as an 
investor, and their role in the Target was limited to the same. Defining KWE as 
an investor underscores the intent between the parties to the SHA, indicating 
that KWE’s primary interest was financial success of the Target, and not its 
governance.  
• --------------------- ------------------- ------------------- ----------------- -------- ---- -- 
-------------------- ------------------- -------------------- ----------------- ---------------- 
-------------- ----------- -------------- --------------- -------------- --------- ------------- 
---------------- ---------------- --------------- ---------------- --------------- ------------- 
------------- ------------- -------------- ------------ ----------- ------- -------------------- 
----------  
• The practical implications of KWE's position as an investor can be observed in 
their interactions with Target's management and other shareholders. KWE's 
involvement was primarily through financial commitments, such as capital 
injections or equity purchases, without any direct engagement in policy-making 
or executive functions and that this is evident from KWE’s voting pattern during 
board and shareholder’s meetings. --------- ---------- ----------- -------- ------------ 
------------- ------------ -------------- ------------ -------------- ------ ----- -------------- 
------------- --------------- ------------- -------- ----------- ------------ ------------------ 
-------- --------- -- --- -- --- -- ----------- -- --- ------- 
 

 
       
 
 
Page 6 of 11 
 
Based on the aforesaid, it has been stated that Allcargo effectively exercised sole control 
over Gati Express prior to the Transaction and that ------- ------- ----------- -------- ------ 
--- ------- --- ---------- -- ---------- -- --- ------ 
 
11. 
As regards the question of ability of KWE to block special resolutions, Allcargo 
confirmed that KWE could under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 block 
special resolutions. However, as submitted, given the practice of conducting affairs at 
the Target, Allcargo was under the bona fide belief that it exercised sole control over 
the Target wherein KWE was only engaged in the capacity of an investor. 
 
There was no change in quality of control  
 
12. 
As submitted, the concept of ‘control’ is crucial in determining whether a transaction 
or arrangement constitutes a concentration that may significantly impede effective 
competition. As stated, the quality of control should be interpreted as the manner in 
which control is exercised and that includes the effectiveness, consistency, and integrity 
with which the controlling entity manages the undertaking. It has been stated that if the 
quality of control remains constant, it implies that the way the undertaking is managed 
does not change significantly. 
 
13. 
Allcargo submitted that the aforesaid interpretation of change in quality of control is 
consistent with the decisional practice of the Commission. Allcargo made reference to 
the decisions of the Commission in Keimed Private Limited2 and Ms. Shobana 
Kamineni / Prime Time Logistics3. In Keimed Private Limited, the Commission noted 
that:  
 
“ 5. The key aspect for examination from competition perspective in cases involving 
change in control from joint to sole or changes in degree or quality of control is the 
change in ability/incentive of the entity acquiring sole control resulting from lifting of 
 
2 Order under Section 31(1) of the Competition Act, 2002 dated 9th February 2023 in Combination Regn. No. C-
2022/10/979 
3 Order under Section 31(1) of the Competition Act, 2002 dated 9th February 2023 in Combination Regn. No. C-
2022/10/978 

 
       
 
 
Page 7 of 11 
 
restraining influence of other shareholders arising from their potentially different 
interests. It may also be noted that such potential differences in interests are more likely 
in the event of entities involved having separate presence in the related area(s) apart 
from the entity(ies) which is/are under joint control. Further, such potential 
differences would also depend upon various factors viz., inter-alia, extent of 
shareholding, nature of rights, overall presence of the entity etc.” (emphasis added) 
 
In Ms. Shobana Kamineni / Prime Time Logistics, the Commission noted that: 
 
“One of the key aspects for examination from the competition perspective in cases 
involving change in control from joint to sole or changes in degree or quality of control 
is the change in the ability/incentive of the entity acquiring sole control resulting from 
lifting of the restraining influence of exiting shareholder(s), arising from their 
potentially different interests. It may also be noted that such potential differences in 
interests are more likely in the event of involved entities having separate presence in 
related area(s) apart from entity(ies) under joint control.” (emphasis added) 
 
14. 
In the backdrop of aforesaid observations of the Commission, it has been stated that the 
interests of KWE and AGL were aligned, as evident from their voting pattern and that 
even prior to the Transaction, AGL’s nominee directors have always cast majority votes 
during the Target’s annual general meetings and the shareholder meetings with respect 
to both the ordinary and special resolutions for at least the last 3 years. Accordingly, it 
has been stated that even if it were to be considered that Allcargo acquired sole control 
as a result of the Transaction, there is no change in the ability/incentive of Allcargo, 
after the exit of KWE, to influence the Target.  
 
Allcargo’s bona fide view on the interpretation of ‘control’ 
 
15. 
As submitted, the Commission has made this assumption of KWE exercising control 
over Gati Express on the basis of KWE’s shareholding of more than 25 %, which grants 
KWE the ability to ‘veto’ the decisions which require passing of a special resolution as 
conferred by the Companies Act, 2013. In this regard, Allcargo made a reference to the 
FAQs on the Commission’s website which explains: 

 
       
 
 
Page 8 of 11 
 
 
“…special rights/veto rights are not the only basis for inferring the ability to 
manage/control the affairs of an enterprise and there can be other sources of control 
as well, viz., status and expertise of an enterprise or person, board representation, 
structural/financial arrangements, etc. In competition law practice, control is 
considered a matter of degree. However, all degrees and forms of control nonetheless 
constitute control. International jurisprudence considers “material influence” as the 
lowest form of control, alongside other higher forms such as de facto control and 
controlling interest (de jure control), in that order.” (emphasis added) 
 
In the backdrop of aforesaid FAQ, Allcargo submitted that the Commission recognizes 
three degrees of control, namely de jure control, de facto control, and material 
influence. Allcargo submitted that given its shareholding and that of KWE and 
considering the aforesaid aspects on decisive control, Allcargo was under the bona fide 
belief that it solely exercised de jure control (through AGL) over the Target.  
 
No AAEC as a result of the Transaction 
 
16. 
It has been stated that no AAEC on competition within India has been caused and/or is 
likely to be caused as a result of the Transaction. Acquisitions within the same group, 
where there is no change in control, are exempt from notification and that such 
transactions do not alter the competitive dynamics outside the group and are unlikely 
to adversely affect competition.  
 
Mitigating factors 
 
17. 
Allcargo has submitted that if the Commission decides to impose a penalty, the  
Commission may, inter alia, consider that Allcargo was of the bonafide view that there 
was no requirement to make a merger filing and there was no deliberate mal-intent to 
circumvent a filing requirement and that it has also now further initiated the process to 
enforce a robust competition compliance program (CCP) within its premises, ensuring 
compliance with competition law.  
 

 
       
 
 
Page 9 of 11 
 
III. Observations and Findings of the Commission  
 
18. 
The key aspect of the SCN was non-applicability of Item 2 of Schedule I of the 
Combination Regulations, 2011 on the Transaction as the same had the effect of 
changing the control over Gati Express from joint control of Allcargo and KWE to sole 
control of Allcargo. The basis of such prima facie finding was the extent of 
shareholding of KWE (30 %) which conferred KWE with the ability to 'veto' the 
decisions which required passing of special resolution as per the Companies Act, 2013 
raising the presumption of negative control. While Allcargo has made submissions on 
having decisive control over Gati Express, it has also conceded that KWE had the ability 
to 'veto' the decisions which required passing of special resolution.  
 
19. 
Based on the perusal of SHA along with the Response to SCN, the Commission further 
observed that KWE not only had negative control in terms of shareholding but also in 
terms of veto rights on reserved matters. The reserved matters, inter alia, included rights 
such as  ----------- ---------- ------------ ---------------- ------------- -------------- ----------- -
----------- ------------ ------------ ------------ ----------- ----------- ------------ ----------- ------
------------ ------------- ------- all of which are considered as control conferring rights. 
 
20. 
Considering the explicit change in control of Gati Express from joint control to sole 
control as reflected in the extent of shareholding and nature of rights under the SHA, 
any further submissions as regards decisive control, degree or quality of control are not 
tenable and examination of the same is otiose. Nonetheless, the Commission considered 
the submissions of Allcargo and made the following observations.  
 
21. 
As regards the submissions of Allcargo having decisive control, the Commission 
observed that ‘control’ means and implies the ability to control ------- ------ -------- ---- 
------------ -------------  ----- --------- --------- --------- ------ ----------- --------- ----------- --
------------------- ------- ------ ---- the same does not dilute the ability of such shareholder 
to exercise control over the management and affairs of a company.  The submissions of 
Allcargo on having decisive influence and the details of voting patterns submitted does 
not imply lack of control of KWE and is merely representative of existing operational 
dynamics which may or may not subsist or persist in future. The Commission further 

 
       
 
 
Page 10 of 11 
 
observed that ‘control’ includes both de facto and de jure aspects and in the present 
case, KWE did have de jure negative control over Gati Express arising from its 
shareholding and rights under the SHA. 
 
22. 
The Commission considered the references made to its decisional practice wherein 
importance has been accorded to the change in the ability/incentive of the entity 
acquiring sole control resulting from lifting of the restraining influence of exiting 
shareholder(s), arising from their potentially different interests and wherein the 
Commission has also noted that such potential differences in interests are more likely 
in the event of involved entities having separate presence in related area(s) apart from 
entity(ies) under joint control. The Commission noted that the observations referred by 
Allcargo are in context of assessment of a combination transaction for likelihood of 
AAEC, which is a separate exercise undertaken subsequent to the notification of a 
combination. It is neither substantively appropriate nor tenable under the Act to conflate 
the issues of notification and assessment. Whether a transaction has caused or is likely 
to cause AAEC cannot be made the basis for requirement of filing notice of a 
transaction. Accordingly, the submissions of Allcargo in this regard are misplaced. 
 
23. 
Further, the reference to FAQs is also misconceived. The FAQ referred by Allcargo 
provides that special rights/veto rights are not the only basis for inferring the ability to 
manage/control the affairs of an enterprise and there can be other sources of control as 
well, viz., status and expertise of an enterprise or person, board representation, 
structural/financial arrangements, etc. In competition law practice, control is considered 
a matter of degree. However, all degrees and forms of control nonetheless constitute 
control. Thus, while considering control as a matter of degree, the FAQ gives due 
emphasis to veto rights and furthers the same by highlighting other sources of control. 
The FAQ clearly records that all degrees and forms of control nonetheless constitute 
control and accordingly the belief that if an entity has de jure control, the other forms 
of control become irrelevant is incorrect.  
 
24. 
On the basis of the aforesaid, the Commission is of the opinion that the Transaction was 
notifiable and by consummating the same without filing a notice, Allcargo has 
contravened the provisions of Section 6(2) of the Act and is liable to penalty under 

 
       
 
 
Page 11 of 11 
 
Section 43A of the Act. Section 43A of the Act provides that if any person or enterprise 
fails to give notice to the Commission under Section 6(2) of the Act, the Commission 
shall impose on such person or enterprise a penalty which may extend to 1 % of the 
total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, of such a combination. Thus, Section 
43A of the Act empowers the Commission to determine the appropriate amount of 
penalty in a matter, subject to the maximum of 1% of the total turnover or the assets, 
whichever is higher. 
 
25. 
Considering the facts and circumstances of the instant matter and the conduct of 
Allcargo during the proceedings, the Commission considers it appropriate to impose a 
penalty of INR 50,00,000 (Rupees Fifty Lakhs Only) on Allcargo. Allcargo is directed 
to pay the penalty within 60 days from the date of receipt of this order. 
 
26. 
It is made clear that nothing used in this order shall be deemed to be confidential or 
deemed to have been granted confidentiality, as the same has been used for the purposes 
of the Act in terms of the provisions contained in Section 57 thereof. 
 
27. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to Allcargo accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
 
