 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 1 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
11.05.2018 
Notice given by Bharti Airtel Limited and Bharti Hexacom Limited pursuant to an inquiry 
under Section 20(1) of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
CORAM: 
Mr. Devender Kumar Sikri 
Chairperson 
 
Mr. Sudhir Mital 
Member 
 
Mr. Augustine Peter 
Member 
 
Mr. U. C. Nahta 
Member 
 
Mr. G. P. Mittal 
Member 
 
Appearances during Oral hearing on 30.01.2018 for Bharti Airtel Limited and Bharti 
Hexacom Limited: 
Mr. Amit Sibal, Sr. Advocate, Mr Atul Dua, Advocate, Mr. Sameer Chugh, Director (Legal), 
Bharti Airtel Limited, Mr. Ankush Walia, Advocate, Mr. Param Tandon, Advocate, Dr. Vijay 
Kumar Aggarwal, Advocate 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002  
 
A. Section 20(1) Proceedings and filing of notice 
 
1. 
The Competition Commission of India (“Commission”), in its meeting held on 20.06.2016 
took suo motu cognizance of transaction involving acquisition of right to use of spectrum by 
Bharti Airtel Limited (“Airtel”) from Aircel Limited (“Aircel”) pursuant to guidelines for 
trading of access spectrum (“Spectrum Trading Guidelines”) issued by the Department of 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 2 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Telecommunication (“DoT”), Government of India and accordingly decided to initiate an 
inquiry under Section 20(1) of the Competition Act, 2002 (“Act”) in the above-said 
transaction. Vide letter dated 30.06.2016, Airtel was directed to provide, inter alia, copy(ies) 
of definitive agreement(s) entered between the parties to the transaction, details of 
assets/turnover of the parties etc. 
 
2. 
Airtel submitted the requisite information/document(s) on 04.08.2016. The Commission 
considered the response filed by Airtel and noted that based on the combined assets and 
turnover of Airtel and Aircel Group entities, the notification thresholds under Section 5(a) 
of the Act are met. Further, the Commission noted that acquisition of spectrum: (i) is an 
“acquisition” within the meaning of the Act; and (ii) does not fall under any item under 
Schedule I to the Competition Commission of India (Procedure in regard to the transaction 
of business relating to combinations) Regulations, 2011 (“Combination Regulations”). 
Accordingly, vide letter dated 12.04.2017, the Commission directed Airtel to file notice in 
Form I for the above-said transaction in terms of Section 20(1) of the Act read with 
Regulation 8 of the  Combination Regulations (“Section 20(1) Directions”).  
 
3. 
Pursuant to the Section 20(1) Directions, on 15.05.2017, Airtel filed a notice jointly with 
Bharti Hexacom Limited (“Bharti Hexacom”) (Hereinafter Airtel and Bharti Hexacom are 
collectively referred to as the “Acquirers”) for acquisition of the right to use of 20 MHz 
spectrum in the 2300 MHz band of BWA Spectrum in each of 8 licensed services areas, 
namely, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir, North East, Tamil Nadu, 
Odisha and West Bengal from Aircel, Aircel Cellular Limited (“Aircel Cellular”) and 
Dishnet Wireless Limited (“Dishnet”) (collectively “Aircel Group”) (“Spectrum 
Transaction) (hereinafter the Acquirers and Aircel Group are collectively referred to as the 
“Parties”). For the purpose of the Spectrum Transaction, the Parties entered into eight 
separate Spectrum Trading Agreements each dated 08.04.2016. The right to use of the 
aforesaid Spectrum for 6 licensed service areas, namely, Assam, Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir, 
North East, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal was transferred with effect from 17.06.2016 
pursuant to the approval of the DoT. The right to use of the aforesaid spectrum for Odisha 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 3 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
and Andhra Pradesh was transferred with effect from 30.06.2016 and 16.11.2016 
respectively pursuant to the approval of DoT.  
B. Approval of the Combination and Section 43A proceedings 
 
4. 
The Commission, in its meeting held on 21.06.2017, approved the Spectrum Transaction by 
passing an order under Section 31(1) of the Act (“Order”) without prejudice to any penalty 
proceedings under Section 43A of the Act. In terms of Section 43A of the Act read with 
Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009 
(“General Regulations”), a show cause notice (“SCN”) dated 14.09.2017 was issued to the 
Acquirers to show cause, in writing, within 15 days of the receipt of SCN as to why penalty, 
in terms of Section 43A of the Act should not be imposed on them for failure to file notice 
for the Spectrum Transaction within the stipulated time under the provisions of the Act and 
consummating the Spectrum Transaction before expiry of timelines as provided in Section 
6(2A) of the Act. The Acquirers filed their response to the SCN (“Response”) on 29.09.2017 
along with a request for oral hearing, in terms of Regulation 48 of the General Regulations.  
 
5. 
The Commission, in its meeting held on 28.12.2017, considered the Response and granted a 
personal hearing to the Acquirers on 11.01.2018. However, vide letter dated 09.01.2018, the 
Acquirers requested for adjournment in the matter. The Commission accepted the request of 
the Acquirers and granted a personal hearing on 30.01.2018. Accordingly, the Acquirers 
presented their case before the Commission on 30.01.2018.  
C. Submissions of the Acquirers 
 
6. 
In the Response and during oral submissions, the Acquirers, inter alia, contended the 
following: 
 
Preliminary Submissions 
 
6.1. 
That the SCN issued by the Commission fails to reveal whether the procedure prescribed 
under Regulation 48 of the General Regulations has been followed and as to whether the 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 4 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Commission has taken up the issue in any of its ordinary meeting and decided to issue a 
show cause notice in the matter. The SCN does not provide a copy of the order of the 
Commission by which the Secretary has been authorised/directed to issue the SCN. In 
view of the above, the SCN is incompetent and liable to be withdrawn/dropped. 
 
6.2. 
That the copy of the order of the Commission for directions dated 30.06.2016 (seeking 
information about the transaction) was also not annexed with the letter communicating 
directions of the Commission. Airtel, while submitting response dated 04.08.2016 
requested for a copy of the order wherein the Commission had decided to initiate an 
inquiry under Section 20(1) of the Act. The Commission neither provided a copy of the 
order nor decided the objections regarding jurisdiction and maintainability raised by 
Airtel. 
 
6.3. 
That after receipt of Section 20(1) Directions, Airtel had filed an application under 
Regulation 50(1) of the General Regulations for inspection of record and that neither the 
inspection was granted nor a copy of the order wherein the Commission considered 
response of Airtel dated 04.08.2016 was provided by the Commission.  
 
6.4. 
That the Commission passed the Order approving the Spectrum Transaction also without 
dealing with preliminary submissions made by Airtel as regards jurisdiction and 
maintainability. 
 
6.5. 
That as the legal issues regarding jurisdiction and maintainability of the directions dated 
30.06.2016 and 12.04.2017 were yet to be determined, the SCN is liable to be 
withdrawn/dropped by the Commission. 
 
6.6. 
That the Commission in Bhartiya Mahila Bank/SBI C-2016/11/4581 (“SBI-BMB Case”), 
did not proceed under Section 43A of the Act even though the notice in said case was also 
filed pursuant to an inquiry under Section 20(1) of the Act apparently for the reason that   
subsequently, upon filing of the mandatory notice pursuant to the directions of the 
                                                          
1 Order dated 29.11.2016, passed under Section 31(1) of the Act  

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 5 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Commission, the Commission approved the combination. Same analogy deserves to be 
applied in the present matter as well and notice deserves to be withdrawn/dropped.   
 
Submissions on Merits 
 
6.7. 
That the transaction did not qualify as “acquisition of an enterprise” within the meaning 
of Section 5 of the Act because: 
 
i. 
The transaction is undertaken in terms of Spectrum Trading Guidelines and 
adhered to the requirements contained therein. At all times, including even after 
the transfer of right to use of the aforesaid spectrum, the Acquirers continued and 
still continue to be within the Spectrum Caps prescribed by the DoT in Spectrum 
Trading Guidelines; 
 
ii. 
Aircel Group did not transfer any customers or market share or part of enterprise 
to the Acquirers; 
 
iii. 
Even after transfer of the right to use of the spectrum, Aircel Group continues to 
provide services to its customers and its ability to provide services to its existing 
and new customers does not get impacted in any manner;  
 
iv. 
The transaction does not entail “acquisition” of spectrum, i.e., there is no transfer 
of title to the spectrum from the vendor to the vendee. The ownership of spectrum 
remains with the Government of India at all times and merely the right to use the 
spectrum has been granted to the identified licensees. The Government of India 
has a right to recall any of the spectrum licensed to telecom service providers 
(“TSPs”), under certain conditions, including the failure to comply with the 
original terms of auction and license. The Spectrum Trading Guidelines only 
permit downstream trading of the right to use of spectrum and the Government of 
India retains ownership of the spectrum and the ability to recall the right to use of 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 6 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
spectrum. Mere assignment of the right to use does not amount to an “acquisition” 
under the Act. 
 
6.8. 
That the Spectrum Transaction is not required to be notified in view of exemption under 
Item 3 of Schedule I read with Regulation 4 of the Combination Regulations. Regulation 
4 provides that transactions specified in Schedule I are ordinarily not likely to cause an 
AAEC in India and a notification need not normally be filed with the Commission with 
respect to such transactions. Item 3 of Schedule I reads, 
 
“An acquisition of assets, referred to in sub- clause (i) or sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of 
section 5 of the Act, not directly related to the business activity of the party acquiring the 
asset or made solely as an investment or in the ordinary course of business, not leading 
to control of the enterprise whose assets are being acquired except where the assets being 
acquired represent substantial business operations in a particular location or for a 
particular product or service of the enterprise, of which assets are being acquired, 
irrespective of whether such assets are organized as a separate legal entity or not.” 
 
6.9. 
That the Spectrum Transaction is exempt under Item 3 of Schedule I of the Combination 
Regulations because: 
 
i. 
Spectrum Transaction is in ordinary course of business: Considering that mobile 
services cannot be provided without spectrum, it is self-evident that the 
acquisition of a right to use the spectrum (as long as approved by the DoT) by a 
TSP would fall within the ambit of ordinary course of business for such a TSP; 
ii. 
Spectrum Transaction does not lead to the acquisition of control over Aircel 
Group: The transaction relates to assignment of the right to use of spectrum alone 
and does not result in the acquisition of control by the Acquirers over Aircel Group 
in any manner; 
iii. 
The Spectrum Transaction does not involve acquisition of assets that represent a 
substantial portion of Aircel Group’s business operations in a particular location 
or for a particular product or service of Aircel Group: The right to use of 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 7 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
spectrum forming part of Spectrum Transaction constitutes not more than 6 
percent of Aircel Group’s business by revenue in any circle. Thus, the spectrum 
in question did not represent a substantial portion of Aircel Group’s business 
operations.     
 
6.10. That the Spectrum Transaction falls within the purview of telecom regulatory regime and 
the concerned authority(ies) therein. The issues relating to telecom policy and the 
functioning of TSPs are regulated by the DoT as well as the TRAI and that the regulatory 
regime for telecom sector is a self-contained mechanism which addresses, inter alia, 
competition related concerns. The Spectrum Trading Guidelines prescribe an overall 
spectrum threshold with a view to protect and promote competition in telecom sector. 
Further, Spectrum Trading Guidelines facilitate efficient utilization of spectrum. Section  
62 of the Act states, 
 
“The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the provisions 
of any other law for the time being in force” 
 
As such, the Act contemplates that the Commission should exercise its powers to review 
in a harmonious manner and should refer to the provisions of legislation/regulations 
and/or the concerned regulator(s) for specific sectors, especially where such 
legislation/regulations and/or regulator(s) seek to address competition concerns. 
  
6.11. That, alternatively, the Commission may make a reference to the DoT in terms of Section 
21A of the Act, which provides for instances where the Commission may make a 
reference to a statutory authority. Section 21A reads, 
 
“(1) Where in the course of a proceeding before the Commission an issue is raised by 
any party that any decision which, the Commission has taken during such proceeding or 
proposes to take, is or would be contrary to any provision of this Act whose 
implementation is entrusted to a statutory authority, then the Commission may make a 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 8 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
reference in respect of such issue to the statutory authority: Provided that the 
Commission, may, suo moto, make such a reference to the statutory authority. 
 
(2) On receipt of a reference under sub-section (1), the statutory authority shall give its 
opinion, within sixty days of receipt of such reference, to the Commission which shall 
consider the opinion of the statutory authority, and thereafter give its findings recording 
reasons there for on the issues referred to in the said opinion. "  
 
That considering that there are sector specific guidelines which not only provide for a 
procedure to be followed for spectrum trading but also ensure the protection of 
competition between TSPs when trading the right to use of spectrum, this is a fit case for 
reference by the Commission to the DoT. 
 
6.12. That without prejudice to the above, the Commission may consider following mitigating 
factors/circumstances: 
 
i. 
Spectrum trading is regulated by specific guidelines and these guidelines do not 
make the provision for filing under the Combination Regulations. Therefore, 
being a debatable issue, different views and interpretation are possible as to 
whether the transaction is covered under the provisions of Section 5 and 6 of the 
Act; 
ii. 
There was no malafide intention to evade compliance under the provisions of the 
Act; 
iii. 
It has been determined that the Combination did not cause any adverse effect on 
competition; 
iv. 
The Acquirers have continued to cooperate and comply with the directions of 
the Commission at all stages; and 
v. 
There have been no previous instances where the Commission has found the 
Acquirers to be in violation of the provisions relating to Section 5 and 6 of the 
Act. 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 9 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
D. Analysis and Findings of the Commission 
 
7. 
The Acquirers have stated that the SCN fails to reveal whether the procedure contained in 
Regulation 48 of the General Regulations has been followed. In this regard, it would be 
appropriate to first consider the requirements of Regulation 48 of the General Regulations. 
Regulation 48 of the General Regulation reads, 
 
“Procedure for imposition of penalty under the Act. – 
(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any regulations framed under the 
Act, no order or direction imposing a penalty under Chapter VI of the Act shall be made 
unless the person or the enterprise or a party to the proceeding, during an ordinary meeting 
of the Commission, has been given a show cause notice and reasonable opportunity to 
represent his case before the Commission. 
 
(2) In case the Commission decides to issue show cause notice to any person or enterprise 
or a party to the proceedings, as the case may be, under sub- regulation (1), the Secretary 
shall issue a show cause notice giving not less than fifteen days asking for submission of the 
explanation in writing within the period stipulated in the notice. 
(3) The Commission shall, on receipt of the explanation, and after oral hearing if granted, 
proceed to decide the matter of imposition of penalty on the facts and circumstances of the 
case.” 
 
8. 
It is observed that Regulation 48 of the General Regulation requires that no order imposing 
a penalty is to be made without issuing a show cause notice and granting opportunity to the 
concerned parties to represent their case. It further provides the following procedure to be 
followed before deciding on imposition of penalty – 
 
i. In case the Commission decides to issue a show cause notice, the Secretary to issue a 
show cause notice to the parties concerned giving them at least 15 days’ time for 
submission of explanation; 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 10 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
ii. After receipt of explanation, the Commission may grant oral hearing; and 
 
iii. The Commission to proceed to decide the issue of imposition of penalty. 
 
9. 
In the instant case, the SCN clearly mentioned that the Commission considered the matter in 
its meeting held on 21.06.2017 and approved the Spectrum Transaction without any 
prejudice to proceedings under Section 43A of the Act. In accordance with the directions of 
the Commission and in terms of Regulation 48 of the General Regulations, the Secretary 
issued the SCN and the Acquirers were given 15 days’ time to respond to the SCN. Thus, 
the procedure contained in Regulation 48 of the General Regulations was duly followed and 
the contents of the SCN also reflected the same. Therefore, the submission of the Acquirers 
that the SCN failed to reveal whether the procedure prescribed under Regulation 48 is not 
correct. 
 
10. 
As regards the contention that the SCN does not provide a copy of the order of the 
Commission by which the Secretary has been authorised/directed to issue the SCN, the SCN 
is self-contained and the procedure does not require provision of the order of the Commission 
along with the SCN. In case the parties are desirous of obtaining copies of the orders of the 
Commission etc., they may file inspection requests and obtain certified copies of the 
document(s) by following procedure contained in General Regulations. In the instant case, 
the SCN was issued on 14.09.2017, the Acquirers submitted Response on 28.09.2017 and 
thereafter filed inspection request on 03.01.2018 which was granted on 18.01.2018. In view 
of the above, the contention of the Acquirers, that SCN is incompetent, is not tenable. 
 
11. 
The Acquirers have also contended that the directions dated 30.06.2016 were also issued 
without providing a copy of the order of the Commission and that the same was not provided 
even when a request was made while filing response dated 04.08.2016. In this regard, it may 
be noted that the General Regulations contain elaborate procedure for inspection of 
documents and for obtaining certified copies of the same. Airtel, while filing response dated 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 11 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
04.08.2016 did not make any request in terms of the provisions of General Regulations for 
inspection/provision of certified copies. In view of the same, the contention of the Acquirers 
is not tenable. 
 
12. 
The Acquirers have also contended that Section 20(1) Directions were issued by the 
Commission without deciding on the objections regarding jurisdiction and maintainability 
raised by Airtel in its reply dated 04.08.2016. In this regard, the Commission observed that 
Section 20(1) Directions clearly recorded that the Commission considered the response dated 
04.08.2016 and further noted that Airtel and Aircel Group entities met the notification 
thresholds prescribed under Section 5(a) of the Act. As regards the submissions of Airtel on 
Spectrum Transaction not requiring notice, Section 20(1) Directions recorded that (i) 
acquisition of spectrum is an “acquisition” within the meaning of the Act; and (ii) does not 
fall under Schedule I to the Combination Regulations. Thus, the Section 20(1) Directions 
were sufficiently reasoned as regards the basis for issuing such directions and the same also 
conveyed that Airtel’s response filed on 04.08.2016 was duly considered by the Commission 
in arriving at the decision to initiate inquiry into the Spectrum Transaction. In view of the 
same, the Acquirer’s contentions that Section 20(1) Directions were issued without deciding 
on the issues of jurisdiction and maintainability are not tenable. 
 
13. 
As regards the issue of inspection request in respect of Section 20(1) proceedings, the same 
was granted and conducted by the Acquirers on 20.12.2017, i.e., before the personal hearing, 
which was granted on 30.01.2018.  
 
14. 
The Acquirers have contended that the Commission passed the Order approving the 
Spectrum Transaction also without dealing with preliminary submissions made by Airtel as 
regards jurisdiction and maintainability. As stated above, the issues of notifiability of 
Spectrum Transaction were already dealt at the time of issuing Section 20(1) directions. 
After the Acquirers had filed the notice there were two separate issues to be considered viz., 
(i) assessing the Spectrum Transaction for an appreciable adverse effect on competition; and 
(ii) imposition of penalty under Section 43A of the Act. The two aspects are delinked so that 
the approval of a transaction does not get delayed because of the penalty proceedings which 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 12 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
are likely to take some time. Accordingly, the Commission approved the Spectrum 
Transaction by passing an order under Section 31(1) of the Act without prejudice to Section 
43A proceedings which were subsequently initiated.  
 
15. 
The Acquirers have made a reference to SBI-BMB Case and inferred that as the Commission 
approved the transaction after asking the parties to file notice under Section 20(1) of the Act, 
and did not initiate Section 43A proceedings, the same analogy deserves to be followed in 
the instant case. In this regard, the Commission observed that initiation of Section 43A 
proceedings depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case and not merely on 
whether the transaction is ultimately approved or not. As such, the Acquirers’ view of the 
same analogy to be applied in this case is based on incomplete knowledge of facts and hence, 
not correct. 
 
16. 
The Commission has noted the submissions of the Acquirers on merits and on consideration 
of the aforesaid, the following issues arise for determination in the present matter: 
 
i. Whether the fact that the Spectrum Transaction is pursuant to Spectrum Trading 
Guidelines ousts the jurisdiction of the Commission? 
ii. Whether the Spectrum Transaction amounts to “acquisition of assets” within the 
meaning of the term under Section 5 of the Act? And 
iii. If the Spectrum Transaction amounts to “acquisition”, whether the transaction is 
covered under Item 3 of Schedule I of the Combination Regulations? 
 
Issue No. 1: Whether the fact that the transaction is pursuant to Spectrum Trading 
Guidelines ousts the jurisdiction of the Commission? 
17. 
In this regard, it may be noted that merely the fact that the sectoral regulator allows an 
activity and prescribes conditions as regards the functioning of the same, it does not mean 
or imply that the competition law would not apply to the concerned sector. The Act requires 
all instances of acquisition of assets, shares, control, voting rights or instances of mergers or 
amalgamations to be notified to the Commission which meet the jurisdictional thresholds 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 13 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
prescribed under Section 5 of the Act. The Act does not contain or envisage any exemption 
to sectors wherein the sectoral regulator guidelines contain any provision which may relate 
to the competitiveness of the sector.  
 
It may be further relevant to note that the said guidelines are in the nature of subordinate 
legislation and thus repugnancy, if any, is not a case of conflict between legislations enacted 
by the Parliament. Nevertheless, considering the situation on an overall basis, it seems 
appropriate to conclude that the guidelines issued by a sectoral regulator are in furtherance 
of the protection of market competition and not replace the assessment mandated to be 
carried out by the Commission. The clauses included in Spectrum Trading Guidelines 
primarily relate to market share of the parties in terms of spectrum holding. Market share is 
just one of the several factors, as contained in Section 20(4) of the Act, for assessing 
likelihood of a proposed combination leading to AAEC. Further, even the market shares 
cannot be considered in accordance with the pre-determined safe harbours as the efficacy of 
market shares can vary from sector to sector and even from case to case depending on other 
factors. Accordingly, the Commission has noted in its orders relating to telecom sector that 
the assessment of a proposed combination needs to be based, independently of such 
guidelines, on factors as contained in Section 20(4) of the Act. Thus, it may be concluded 
that the submissions of the Acquirer in this regard are not tenable and cannot be acceded to. 
 
Issue No. 2: Whether the Spectrum Transaction amounts to “acquisition of assets” within 
the meaning of the term under Section 5 of the Act? 
 
18. 
At the outset, it would be appropriate to understand the rationale behind requiring 
notification in the instance of acquisition of assets. The key consideration in requiring 
mergers and acquisitions to be reviewed is that the M&As may lead to conferring economic 
advantages to the parties involved giving them an ability to influence the competition 
dynamics of a market. The companies may get these economic benefits by acquiring shares, 
voting rights or control of an enterprise or by acquiring assets of an enterprise. Thus, there 
is no distinction between acquisition of shares, voting rights, control and acquisition of assets 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 14 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
in so far as it leads to economic advantages. Accordingly, acquisition of assets is required to 
be notified just like acquisition of shares, voting rights and control.  
 
19. 
The aspect of potential economic benefits of assets is also captured in the definition of an 
asset as given under Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 38. The Ind AS 38 defines asset 
as -  
 
“… a resource: (a) controlled by an entity as a result of past events; and (b) from which 
future economic benefits are expected to flow to the entity.” 
 
20. 
However, it is also true that all assets may not have significant economic significance to 
merit a merger review and accordingly, all instances of acquisition of assets are not required 
to be notified and different jurisdictions use different approaches to distinguish between 
cases of acquisition of assets falling under the merger review process and otherwise. The 
Combination Regulations provide for two instances of acquisition of assets which do not 
normally require notification –  
 
Item 3 of Schedule I – 
“An acquisition of assets, referred to in sub- clause (i) or sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of 
section 5 of the Act, not directly related to the business activity of the party acquiring the 
asset or made solely as an investment or in the ordinary course of business, not leading to 
control of the enterprise whose assets are being acquired except where the assets being 
acquired represent substantial business operations in a particular location or for a 
particular product or service of the enterprise, of which assets are being acquired, 
irrespective of whether such assets are organized as a separate legal entity or not.” 
 
Item 5 of Schedule I – 
“An acquisition of stock-in-trade, raw materials, stores and spares, trade receivables and 
other similar current assets in the ordinary course of business.” 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 15 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
21. 
Apart from the specific instances of acquisition of assets identified in Schedule I, the 
Commission has also considered international best practices as regards the determination of 
an acquisition of assets falling under the merger review process. It is observed that the 
international best practices are based on broad principle of considering the economic 
significance or competitive significance of the assets involved.  
 
22. 
In this backdrop, the Commission examined the submissions of the Acquirers as regards 
Spectrum Transaction not amounting to acquisition of assets under the Act.  
 
23. 
The first aspect to be considered in determination of instances of acquisition of assets falling 
under the merger review process is the economic significance. From the submissions of the 
Parties, it is quite clear that spectrum is a resource which is “must have” for a TSP. The 
Acquirers have themselves highlighted that spectrum is a basic and essential ingredient 
required for providing wireless telecommunication services and that every TSP must obtain 
the right to use spectrum from time to time with addition of subscribers to its customer base 
to be able to provide telecommunication services and maintain continuity of its business and 
services. These submissions of the Acquirers clearly bring out the fact that spectrum is 
integral to the operations of a TSP and therefore has significant economic and competitive 
significance. Also, the fact that Spectrum Trading Guidelines contain competition 
consideration and regulate the maximum amount of spectrum that a TSP can hold, 
accentuates the economic and competitive significance of the spectrum. 
 
24. 
The second aspect to be considered in determination of instances of acquisition of assets 
falling under the merger review process is whether the concerned asset constitutes a business 
or whether market turnover can be attributed to it. In this regard, it may be noted that the 
phrase “constituting business” or “attribution of market turnover” are to be seen in context 
of “potential” of generating turnover and constituting business. Only in these terms, the 
concept of “assets constituting a business” would be in sync with the basic principle behind 
requiring instances of acquisition of assets to notify i.e., the principle of “economic 
significance”. Going by the view taken by the Acquirers, any enterprise would be entitled to 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 16 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
transfer any asset without notifying the same to the Commission if it is viewed as a surplus 
given the transferor’s scale/scope of operations. It is clear that acquisition of spectrum 
increases the ability of a TSP to cater to a broader subscriber base and generate additional 
turnover and correspondingly reduces such abilities of a TSP that has sold the right to use of 
spectrum. Further, as noted above, spectrum is integral to the operations of a TSP which also 
highlights its economic significance. On the basis of the aforesaid economic significance of 
spectrum in terms of potential of generating turnover, it may be inferred that spectrum 
constitutes business and that market turnover can be attributed to it. 
 
25. 
The Acquirers have submitted that the ownership of spectrum remains with the Government 
of India and that the transfer of right to use of spectrum from Government of India to licensee 
is revocable. The key rationale which emerges from submissions of the Acquirers in this 
regard is that the licensee cannot be regarded as “controlling” the spectrum held by it for 
use. In this regard, it is noted that spectrum is a natural resource which is critical to the 
provision of mobile telephony services and accordingly, the allocation and use of spectrum 
is regulated by government authorities and the DoT grants licenses and allocates and 
regulates the right to use spectrum, while retaining ownership over the resource. However, 
in context of competition law, as regards instances of acquisition of assets, “control” 
represents the right to economic benefits that would flow from the resource and not the 
perpetual ownership of a resource. In that context, right to use of spectrum or any other 
natural resource does constitute an asset. This position is buttressed by the representation of 
right to use of spectrum as an intangible asset by the Acquirer in its financial statements. 
 
26. 
In view of the above, the Commission is of the opinion that acquisition of right to use of 
spectrum constitutes an acquisition of assets for the purpose of the Act. 
 
 
 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 17 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Issue No. 3: Whether the Spectrum Transaction is covered under Item 3 of Schedule I of 
the Combination Regulations? 
 
27. 
The essential conditions of Item 3 of Schedule I are: (i) acquisition of assets not directly 
related to the business activity of the acquirer; or (ii) acquisition of assets made solely as an 
investment or in ordinary course of business. Considering the fact that the Acquirers are also 
TSPs, the first essential condition cannot be fulfilled as the asset in question i.e., spectrum 
is directly related to the business of the Acquirers. 
 
28. 
The next aspect for determination is whether the acquisition of spectrum can be considered 
to be in ordinary course of business or solely as an investment. In this regard, it would be 
appropriate to first consider what is meant by “business” and based on that to examine what 
constitutes activities in ordinary course of business. 
 
29. 
The word “business” implies regular occupation, profession or trade. Based on this 
definition, the business activities can be considered as the activities relating to the regular 
occupation, profession or trade. After noting the scope of business activities, the next 
question to be examined is whether all the business activities can be said to be in ordinary 
course. For this purpose, the business activities/transactions need to be further classified into 
two broad categories, viz., (i) revenue transaction; (ii) capital transactions. 
 
30. 
Revenue transactions may simply be defined as those transactions which are short term and 
constitute income and expenditure and are accordingly reflected in profit and loss account 
or income statement of the enterprise. Capital transactions on the other hand are those which 
affect non-current items such as fixed assets, long term debt etc. and affect the position 
statement of an enterprise. In other words, capital transactions impact the ability of a business 
to carry out revenue transactions. For example, an installation of a new production unit 
(capital expenditure) would be expected to lead to increase in production which in turn would 
be expected to lead to greater sales revenue. On the other hand, revenue transactions only 
impact the existing state of operations and do not change the operating potential. Another 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 18 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
difference between the two may be the frequency of occurrence. Revenue transactions are 
frequent while capital transactions are relatively infrequent. 
 
31. 
Considering the aforesaid differences between capital and revenue transactions, capital 
transactions are considered to be strategic i.e., having economic or competitive significance 
and the revenue transactions are considered to be routine and usual in nature. The term 
“ordinary course of business” also is meant to refer to transactions which are frequent, 
routine and usual and therefore it may be said that the term “ordinary course of business” 
corresponds to revenue transactions for the competition law purposes. 
 
32. 
However, it is also important to note that what constitutes revenue and capital transactions 
vary from business to business i.e., a capital transaction for one business may be a revenue 
transaction for the other. For example, for a seller of plant and machinery, sale of plant and 
machinery may be an activity in ordinary course of business as the same constitutes its 
regular trade while for any player who was using a machine to produce goods for sale, sale 
of such machine would be a capital transaction. In fact, a same item may also have different 
classification. For example, furniture held for sale by a furniture seller would be a current 
asset and the sale proceeds of the same would be revenue receipts but for the same business, 
the stock of furniture held for use in office furnishings etc. would be a non-current asset and 
the expenditure incurred on purchasing the same would be capital expenditure and receipts 
from sale of such furniture would be a capital receipt. In other words, the activities for which 
business is established would be the activities in ordinary course and the activities which are 
meant to help the business carry on its ordinary activities efficiently would be the strategic 
capital transactions. In this backdrop, the specific facts of the instant case can be examined. 
 
33. 
As regards the nature of activities of a TSP, it is noted that the main revenue activities of a 
TSP are activities relating to provision of mobile telephony services. These activities 
constitute the “business” of a TSP, i.e., these activities are in ordinary course of business for 
a TSP and the activities relating to acquisition/transfer of resources such as spectrum which 
are used to render such services are strategic capital transactions and cannot be equated to 
ordinary revenue activities. The Acquirers have stated that spectrum is basic and essential to 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 19 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
the activities of a TSP and therefore acquisition of the same should be considered to be in 
ordinary course of business. It may be noted that all assets are basic and essential to the end 
business revenue activities and if the logic given by the Acquirers is accepted, it would imply 
that acquisition of any or all assets by an entity would be in ordinary course of business and 
eligible to get benefit of exemption under Item 3 of Schedule I of the Combination 
Regulations. The implication of such logic would be that none of the instances of acquisition 
of assets would be covered under merger review process which would be inconsistent with 
the provisions of the Act relating to regulation of combinations.  
 
34. 
The aforesaid findings are bolstered by considering the accounting treatment of spectrum in 
the financial statements prepared by the Acquirers and other TSPs. While preparing the 
financial statements, the results of ordinary activities of a business are depicted in profit and 
loss account while the position of assets and liabilities is contained in balance sheet. The 
Acquirers have duly recognized spectrum as an intangible asset i.e., a non-current asset in 
its balance sheet and not as asset held for sale which would have been reflected as a current 
asset. Thus, on one hand, representing spectrum as a non-current asset in financial 
statements, to make a claim that spectrum is held in ordinary course of business is not correct. 
 
35. 
The Commission further observes that the aforesaid analysis is not impacted by the fact that 
the “trading” of spectrum has now been allowed with issuance of Spectrum Trading 
Guidelines and transaction was pursuant to the same. Spectrum was earlier subjected to 
restrictions as regards sale/transfer but there are other assets of TSPs which are equally 
significant to carry on the business of provision of telecommunication services and those 
never had such restrictions and could have been sold/transferred at their will. Going by the 
rationale given by the Acquirers, sale/transfer of all such assets would also be considered to 
be in ordinary course of business. The Spectrum Trading Guidelines allow the TSPs to 
sell/transfer surplus resources and promotes efficiency in operations but does not and cannot 
alter the nature of a transaction. Spectrum was always a non-current asset whose sale was 
previously not allowed and now the same has been allowed and this change does not make 
spectrum trading as an activity in ordinary course of business for a TSP. The conditions for 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 20 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
spectrum trading requiring inter alia, intimation to DoT before proposed effective date of 
trading, compliance of spectrum caps, trading permissible only after two years of acquisition 
of spectrum through auction, requirement of buyer to fulfil roll-out obligations in the event 
of acquisition of entire spectrum holding etc., clearly imply that the spectrum transactions 
are not similar to activities in ordinary course of business which are not subjected to such 
conditions. 
 
36. 
The Acquirers have also submitted that the spectrum acquired does not represent substantial 
business operations. In this regard, it may be noted that the necessary condition to avail 
exemption under Item 3 of Schedule I is that the acquisition of asset should be in ordinary 
course of business and in view of the aforesaid discussions where it is observed that spectrum 
transaction is not in ordinary course of business, the issue of it constituting “substantial 
business operations” or otherwise becomes otiose. 
 
37. 
As regards the submissions of the Acquirers that the Commission should have made 
reference to the DoT in terms of Section 21A of the Act, it may be noted that the decision of 
the Commission requiring Airtel to file a notice in terms of Section 20(1) of the Act cannot 
be said to be contrary to any other law. The Acquirers have entered into Spectrum 
Transaction pursuant to Spectrum Trading Guidelines. Further, it may be noted that the 
decision of the Commission is not even contrary to the Spectrum Trading Guidelines due to 
the fact that there is no inconsistency between the Spectrum Trading Guidelines and the Act 
for reasons detailed above and therefore the Commission did not consider making reference 
under Section 21A of the Act. 
 
38. 
Based on the aforesaid, it is evident that the Acquirers’ act of acquiring right to use of 
spectrum of Aircel Group without filing a notice with the Commission amounts to 
contravention of provisions of Section 6(2) of the Act and accordingly attracts penalty under 
Section 43A of the Act, which reads as under:  
 
“If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission under sub section(2) 
of section 6, the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a penalty which may 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/05/510) 
 
 
Page 21 of 21 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
extend to one percent of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, of such a 
combination.”  
 
39. 
In terms of Section 43A of the Act, the Commission can levy a maximum penalty of one per 
cent of the combined value of the worldwide turnover of the Parties. However, the 
Commission has sufficient discretion to consider the conduct of the Parties and the 
circumstances of the case to arrive at the appropriate amount of penalty. As regards the 
instant case, the Commission notes that the Spectrum Transaction was amongst the first 
transactions of such nature and there was some uncertainty as regards coverage of the same 
under the Act. In view of the foregoing, the Commission considers it appropriate to impose 
a nominal penalty of INR 5,00,000/- (INR Five Lakhs only) on the Acquirers. 
 
40. 
The Acquirers shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of this 
order. 
 
41. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Acquirers accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
