 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
                                                               Page 1 of 12 
 
 COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/01/241) 
 
16.02.2016 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 (“Act”) in relation to inquiry 
initiated under sub-section (1) of Section 20 of the Act against General Electric 
Company (“GE”), GE Industrial France SAS (“GEIF”) and GE Energy Europe B.V. 
 
Introduction 
1. 
The Competition Commission of India (“Commission”), in its meeting held on 
20.10.2014, took suo motu cognizance of two public announcements (“PAs”) made by GE 
Energy Europe B.V., GE and GEIF (hereinafter, GE Energy Europe B.V., GE and GEIF 
are collectively referred to as the “Acquirers”) on 05.05.2014. The PAs were issued in 
terms of the relevant provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 (“Takeover 
Regulations”) for acquisition of up to 26 per cent of the total paid-up equity share capital 
of the Alstom India Limited (“Target 1”) and acquisition of up to 25 per cent of the total 
paid-up equity share capital of Alstom T&D India Limited (“Target 2”) from their 
respective public shareholders. Target 1 and Target 2 are hereinafter referred to as 
“Targets”. 
 
2. 
It was observed from the PAs and a press release dated 26.06.2014 issued by Alstom S.A. 
that on 30.04.2014, GE made a binding offer to acquire the thermal power, renewable 
power and grid businesses of Alstom S.A. (the parent company of Target 1 and Target 2). 
As part of the transaction, GE would also indirectly acquire 68.56 per cent of equity share 
capital of Target 1 and up to 75 per cent of equity share capital of Target 2. 
 
3. 
The Commission noted that GE together with Target 1 and Target 2 meet the thresholds 
specified in Section 5 of the Act and the aforementioned PAs fall within the purview of 
“other document” as contained in clause (b) of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act read 
with sub-regulation (8) of Regulation 5 of the Competition Commission of India 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/01/241                                                                                                                    Page 2 of 12 
 
(Procedure in regard to the transaction of business relating to combinations) Regulations, 
2011 (“Combination Regulations”), as applicable at the time of issuance of PAs. 
Accordingly, in terms of the above provisions, it appeared that prima facie the Acquirers 
were required to give a notice to the Commission under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the 
Act regarding the proposed combination within thirty days of the PAs i.e., by 04.06.2014. 
 
4. 
In view of the above, vide letter dated 28.10.2014, in terms of Regulation 8 of the 
Combination Regulations, the Acquirers were directed to notify the said transactions in 
Form II, within 30 days of the receipt of the communication in this regard.  
 
5. 
On 24.11.2014, the Commission received a notice bearing registration no. C-2014/11/225 
given by GE, GEIF, ALSTOM and ALSTOM Holdings (hereinafter GE, GEIF, 
ALSTOM, ALSTOM HOLDINGS are collectively referred to as “Parties”) in relation to 
the proposed combination comprising of (i) the acquisition of Alstom‟s thermal power, 
renewable power and grid businesses by GE and its group companies (“Primary 
Acquisition”), (ii) the formation of joint ventures (JVs) i.e.  the Grid and Digital Energy 
JV, the Renewables JV and the Global Nuclear and French Steam JV, between GE and 
Alstom in which Alstom will hold a minority shareholding, and (iii) the acquisition of the 
signalling business of GE by Alstom (“Signalling Transaction”). It was also submitted 
that the Parties reserve their right to file separate submissions in response to the issues 
raised in the letter of the Commission dated 28.10.2014. 
 
6. 
For the purpose of the proposed combination, the parties to the combination entered into 
the (i) Master Agreement with respect to the Primary Acquisition, (ii) Formation 
Agreement with respect to the Grid and Digital Energy JV, (iii) Formation Agreement 
with respect to the Renewables JV (iv) Formation Agreement with respect to the Global 
Nuclear and French Steam JV, and (v) Master Purchase Agreement in relation to the 
Signalling Transaction. All these agreements were executed on 04.11.2014.  
 
7. 
The Commission, in its meeting held on 12.12.2014, decided that the notice filed by the 
Parties on 24.11.2014 is not in conformity with the Combination Regulations and 
therefore, not valid in terms of Regulation 14 of the Combination Regulations. The 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/01/241                                                                                                                    Page 3 of 12 
 
Commission directed that the Parties be required to file a fresh notice in Form II. In 
compliance with the said directions of the Commission, the Parties filed fresh notice bearing 
registration no. C-2015/01/241 on 14.01.2015.  
 
8. 
GE, through their authorized representative, also submitted its reply to the Commission‟s 
letter dated 28.10.2014, on 15.01.2015. 
 
9. 
The Commission, in its meeting held on 05.05.2015, considered the proposed combination 
and approved the same under sub-section (1) of Section 31 of the Act. The Commission 
also considered the response of GE submitted on 15.01.2015 and decided to initiate 
proceedings, against the Acquirers, under Section 43A of the Act. 
 
Proceedings under Section 43A of the Act 
10. 
In view of the above, a show cause notice (“SCN”) was issued to the Acquirers under 
Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India 
(General) Regulations, 2009 (“General Regulations”) on 18.05.2015, requiring them to 
show cause, in writing, within 15 days of receipt of the same, as to why penalty, in terms 
of Section 43A of the Act, should not be imposed on them for failure to file the notice for 
the said transaction in accordance with sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. The 
Acquirers filed their reply to the SCN on 25.06.2015 (“Response to SCN”) after seeking 
extension of time. In the said reply, the Acquirers also requested for a personal hearing in 
terms of Regulation 48 of the General Regulations. 
 
11. 
The Commission, in its meeting held on 30.12.2015, considered the Response to SCN and 
granted a personal hearing to the Acquirers, as requested. The authorized representatives 
of the Acquirers were heard by the Commission in its meeting held on 16.02.2016. The 
Commission noted that vide their written and oral submissions, the Acquirers made, inter 
alia, the following submissions: 
 
11.1 
The initial offer for Alstom‟s power and grid business was a unilateral offer made by 
GE and the terms of the transaction were not yet crystallized at the time of making the 
PAs. There was no certainty as to the manner in which the transaction would take 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/01/241                                                                                                                    Page 4 of 12 
 
place, scope of the assets being acquired, the identity of the acquirer, the key 
commercial arrangements, etc. A valid trigger for merger notification ought to be a 
“binding agreement or other document for acquisition” and not a mere unilateral 
communication of intention to acquire. A PA made on the basis of a mere unilateral 
bid is to arrive at the open offer price as on the date of PA, can be withdrawn, and 
without any definitive documents, should not be construed as a “binding document”.   
 
11.2 
Under the Takeover Regulations, a PA, in case of an indirect acquisition, is a 
simplified disclosure and can be made even before finalising the structure of the 
acquisition or deal specifics. In respect of indirect acquisitions, a PA is issued in 
procedural compliance of the Takeover Regulations to provide benefit to the Acquirer 
to freeze the offer price as on the date of the PA and to prevent the offer price being 
revised pursuant a price run on the shares of the target. A merger notification at the 
stage of such PA (made on the basis of a mere unilateral bid and without any 
definitive documents), at best, is premature and would not provide a transaction 
description, the key commercial terms thereof and no assurance with regards to deal 
certainty. 
 
11.3 
A provision contained in subordinate legislation, such as Combination Regulations 
needs to be read in accordance with the purpose envisaged under the parent statute. 
Further, a proviso creates an exception to the main provision and cannot expand the 
scope of the main provision itself. The doctrine of nociter a soscia suggests that the 
two words “agreement” and “other document” used in clause (b) of sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 of the Act, take colour from the word “acquisition”. In both situations, what 
is contemplated is either a binding agreement or the terms of any document described, 
of whatever name, which remains binding on the parties. If read literally, the second 
proviso to sub-regulation (8) of Regulation 5 of Combination Regulations does not 
create an exception, but rather, expands the scope of the provision itself by clarifying 
what will be considered as the date of execution of a binding document, and this is 
contrary to set principles of statutory interpretation. Accordingly, from a statutory as 
well as a practical perspective, a PA does not satisfy the requirements of an "other 
document". The Acquirers were justified in interpreting the PAs as not being valid 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/01/241                                                                                                                    Page 5 of 12 
 
triggers for merger notifications under the Act and in notifying the proposed 
combination only after a binding agreement for acquisition was executed. 
 
11.4 
On a legitimate and purposive interpretation of the provisions of the Act and the 
Combination Regulations, the requirement to notify the Commission arose only upon 
the execution of a binding agreement, i.e. the Master Agreement, and not a mere 
communication of intent to acquire on the basis of a unilateral offer for the indirect 
acquisition. Section 43A of the Act empowers the Commission to impose a penalty if 
parties fail to give a notice in terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. As 
such, GE complied with sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act and it would not be 
appropriate to subject GE to a penalty under Section 43A of the Act. 
 
11.5 
A PA is not a communication made to SEBI as it does not require SEBI to take any 
action on the basis of the communication. Moreover, the Takeover Regulations do not 
require PAs to be addressed to SEBI. SEBI is not required to approve, or even 
acknowledge receipt of the PA. The purpose of a PA is merely to inform the public at 
large of an impending proposed deal, the specifics of which are yet to be formalized. 
A copy of the PA is sent to SEBI for information or record purposes only. Merely 
sending a copy to any person, for information and/or record purposes only, without 
requiring such person to act in any manner, cannot be considered to be 
“communication” as intended by the Act and the Combination Regulations. 
 
11.6 
The Acquirers acted in good faith and proactively engaged with the Commission from 
the date of making the PAs until filing of the notice, keeping the Commission updated 
on the developments regarding the transaction. 
 
12. 
The Commission observes that sub-regulation (8) of Regulation 5 of the Combination 
Regulations, as applicable on the date of PAs, provides that the reference to the “other 
document” in clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Act shall mean any binding 
document, by whatever name called, conveying an agreement or decision to acquire 
control, shares, voting rights or assets. Further, second proviso to sub-regulation (8) of 
Regulation 5 of the Combination Regulations provides that where such a document has 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/01/241                                                                                                                    Page 6 of 12 
 
not been executed but the intention to acquire is communicated to the Central Government 
or State Government or a Statutory Authority, the date of such communication shall be 
deemed to be the date of execution of the other document for acquisition.  
 
13. 
In the present case, in order to establish that the Acquirers failed to give notice regarding 
the proposed combination to the Commission in accordance with sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 of the Act, the following three facts are required to be established: 
 
i. The Acquirers had an intent to acquire shares in the Targets; 
 
ii. The Acquirers communicated such intent to a Statutory Authority / Central Govt. / 
State Govt (in the present case, Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”)). 
 
iii. The Acquirers failed to give notice to the Commission within thirty days of 
communication of such intent to SEBI. 
 
14. 
In the present case, the binding offer made by the Acquirers qualifies as intent to acquire. 
Further, GE communicated this intent to acquire to SEBI, which is a statutory authority 
incorporated under Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, in form of the 
public announcement made on 05.05.2014. This fulfils the requirement of second proviso 
of sub-regulation (8) of Regulation 5 of the Combination Regulations and thus constitutes 
a valid trigger for filing a notification with the Commission under sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 of the Act. Thus, in accordance with the timelines provided in sub-section (2) of 
Section 6, the notice should have been given to the Commission by 04.06.2014.  
 
15. 
With respect to the submissions of the Acquirers, as mentioned above, the Commission 
observes that: 
 
15.1 
With regard to the submission by the Acquirers that “a valid trigger for merger 
notification ought to be a “binding agreement or other document for acquisition” 
and not a mere unilateral communication of intention to acquire”, the Commission 
notes that the term “other document” used in sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act 
subsumes documents which convey an intent of the acquirers to consummate the 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/01/241                                                                                                                    Page 7 of 12 
 
transaction and would include inter alia unilateral communication such as a public 
announcement made under Takeover Regulations and/or unilateral board resolutions 
such as in case of hostile acquisitions. Therefore, the argument put forth by the 
Acquirers regarding unilateral communication not constituting valid trigger cannot 
be accepted. In relation to the contention of the Acquirers that public announcement 
is not a communication to SEBI, it is observed that as per Black‟s Law Dictionary, 
„communication‟ is “(1.) the expression or exchange of information by speech, 
writing, gestures, or conduct; the process of bringing an idea to another’s 
perception. (2.) the information so expressed or exchanged”. Thus, the definition of 
the word communication includes both one way and two way expression of 
information. Thus, even if the argument of the Acquirer were to be accepted that 
SEBI is not required to take any action on the basis of public announcement, then 
sending a copy to SEBI will constitute a “communication” under the provisions of 
sub-regulation (8) of Regulation 5 of Combination Regulations. 
                                                               
15.2 
Further, the Commission observes that the argument that the words “other 
document” should be read in conjunction with the word “agreement” is misplaced. 
Such narrow interpretation of “other document” would defeat the purpose of 
regulation of combinations as according to the said interpretation, all acquisitions 
wherein there is no agreement executed between the target and the acquirers would 
not be notifiable to the Commission. The purpose of regulation of combinations is to 
inquire into whether the proposed combination which meets the jurisdictional 
thresholds is likely to have an appreciable adverse effect on competition in relevant 
markets in India. Whether such combination was entered into by way of an 
agreement or through market purchase or through a unilateral decision is immaterial 
to the said inquiry.  
 
15.3 
The interpretation of the words “other document” in light of the preceding word 
“agreement” would be contrary to the established legal principles which provide 
that the interpretation of noscitur a sociis cannot be applied where the wider words 
are intentionally used by the legislature in order to make the scope of the defined 
word correspondingly wider. The Commission observes that the words “other 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/01/241                                                                                                                    Page 8 of 12 
 
document” cannot be construed ejusdem generis and notes that in Jagdish Chander 
Gupta Vs. Kajaria Traders (India) Ltd. AIR1964SC1882, the Hon‟ble Supreme 
Court has observed that “[w]hen in a statute particular classes are mentioned by 
name and then are followed by general words, the general words are sometimes 
construed ejusdem generis, i.e., limited to the same category or genus 
comprehended by the particular words. But it is not necessary that this rule must 
always apply. The nature of the special words and the general words must be 
considered before the rule is applied. In Allen v. Emerson [1944] 1 K.B. 362., 
Asquith J. gave interesting examples of particular words followed by general words 
where the principle of ejusdem generis might or might not apply. We think that the 
following illustration will clear any difficulty. In the expression "books, pamphlets, 
newspapers and other documents" private letters may not be held included if 'other 
documents' be interpreted ejusdem generis with what goes before. But in a provision 
which reads "newspapers or other document likely to convey secrets to the enemy", 
the words 'other documents' would include document of any kind and would not take 
their color from 'newspapers'. It follows, therefore, that interpretation ejusdem 
generis or noscitur a sociis need not always be made when words showing 
particular classes are followed by general words. Before the general words can be 
so interpreted there must be a genus constituted or a category disclosed with 
reference to which the general words can and are intended to be restricted.” Since 
the word “agreement” does not constitute a genus in sub-section (2) of section 6, the 
term “other document” which follows the word “agreement” cannot be interpreted 
ejusdem generis and noscitur a sociis does not apply regarding interpretation of the 
said word. Therefore, the Commission has the power to explain the scope of the 
term “other document” by way of its regulations and orders. Nevertheless, in the 
present case, the deeming provision under second proviso to sub-regulation (8) of 
Regulation 5 of the Combination Regulations is not with respect to “other 
document” but the date on which the other document is deemed to be executed.  
 
15.4 
The contention of the Acquirers that terms of initial offer were not crystallized at the 
time of the PAs is also not relevant as a public announcement typically contains 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/01/241                                                                                                                    Page 9 of 12 
 
basic details of the proposed acquisition including details of number of 
shares/voting rights to be acquired and the entities involved in the transaction. 
 
15.5 
Further, in the event the initial understanding between the parties undergoes a 
change, then the Combination Regulations provide for the situations where the 
parties to the combination can inform the Commission about changes in the 
proposed combination. Regulation 16 of the Combination Regulations provide for 
the procedure to intimate changes in the information provided in the notice. 
Similarly, Regulation 17 of the Combination Regulations provide that the 
proceedings under the Act, relating to the combinations, shall be terminated upon 
receiving an intimation from the person(s) or enterprise(s) who filed the notice to 
the effect that the proposed combination will not take effect. These provisions are of 
relevance to suggest that the Combination Regulations, in fact, perceives the 
possibility of a notified combination undergoing subsequent changes even to the 
extent of rescinding the very transaction. However, these provisions are of no 
relevance to determine the obligation of the parties to a combination to give 
notification to Commission under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. 
 
15.6 
A public announcement gains significance as the trigger for filing notification as it 
is not necessary that such public announcement for acquisition of shares of a listed 
company would be followed or preceded by an agreement; for example, such 
acquisition can take place through allotment or market purchases also.  
 
15.7 
It is further observed that the ability to withdraw a PA (made under the Takeover 
Regulations) is of no consequence to determine whether the same falls within the 
scope of the term “other document” and accordingly, whether notification under 
sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act is required to be given to the Commission. It 
is noted that most of the regulations such as Takeover Regulations (issued under 
SEBI Act) and Combination Regulations (issued under the Act) provide for 
withdrawal, termination, notification of change in the transaction(s) etc. These 
flexibilities relate to procedural aspects of respective compliance requirements and 
the same cannot be cited or interpreted to evade compliance of other regulations. If 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/01/241                                                                                                                    Page 10 of 12 
 
one were to agree with the arguments of the Acquirers that the PA could be 
withdrawn and therefore, it is not a binding commitment; then several acquisitions 
pursuant to a public announcement, under the Takeover Regulations, would not be 
notifiable to the Commission. This, in effect, is likely to evade the 
scrutiny/assessment of the Commission in respect of certain combinations that may 
have adverse competition concern only because there is no agreement between the 
parties. Moreover, the binding nature of PA is not important in the present case as 
the second proviso to sub-regulation (8) of Regulation 5 of the Combination 
Regulations does not require a binding document to be executed. On the contrary, it 
provides that if the “other document” (which is a binding document) is not executed, 
but the intention to acquire has been communicated to a statutory authority, the date 
of such communication shall be deemed to be the date of execution of other 
document. 
 
15.8 
Further, the distinction between direct and indirect acquisition (under the Takeover 
Regulations) is of no relevance for the purpose of determining the notification 
requirement under the Act read with Combination Regulations. Unlike the Takeover 
Regulations, the provisions of the Act and the Combination Regulations do not 
distinguish between direct and indirect acquisitions. Clause (a) of Section 2 of the 
Act defines the term “acquisition” as directly or indirectly acquiring the subject 
matters specified therein. Therefore, no distinction could be made in the compliance 
requirements depending on the agreement or other document providing for either 
direct or indirect acquisition.  
 
15.9 
The Commission notes that the public announcement made by the Acquirers 
provided that an agreement would be executed at a later date. However, as provided 
above, the timelines for filing notice commences from the date of public 
announcement. The Commission further observes that in the event the Acquirers 
required any guidance regarding which document would be the trigger document for 
notification purposes, they could have approached the Commission under a pre-
filing consultation procedure before the expiry of 30 days from the issue of public 
announcement. The Commission observes that the Acquirers, being large 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/01/241                                                                                                                    Page 11 of 12 
 
corporations, are deemed to be aware of the applicable regulations in India or to be 
able to obtain adequate assistance regarding the notification process in India, 
including but not limited to notification triggers under the Indian law. In the present 
case, the Acquirers are deemed to have knowledge of existence of second proviso to 
sub-regulation (8) of Regulation 5 of the Combination Regulations and thus, ought 
to have filed the notice within 30 days of communication of their intent to acquire 
the Targets to SEBI.  
 
15.10 The Commission notes that post expiry of the timelines provided in sub-section (2) 
of Section 6 of the Act, the Acquirers informally sought clarification regarding the 
applicable trigger though they could have sought clarification under the pre filing 
consultation procedure. Such conduct shows that the Acquirers were aware of 
second proviso to sub-regulation (8) of Regulation 5 of the Combination 
Regulations and yet chose not to file the notice within 30 days of the public 
announcement. However, the conduct also shows the bona fide of the Acquirers 
regarding their intent to file the notice and the same has been taken as a mitigating 
factor for imposition of penalty.  
 
16. 
Thus, in view of the foregoing, the Commission is of the view that the Acquirers failed to 
give notice to the Commission within 30 days of the PAs, in accordance with sub-section 
(2) of Section 6 of the Act read with sub-regulation (8) of Regulation 5 of the 
Combination Regulations, which attracts penalty under Section 43A of the Act. Section 
43A of the Act reads as under: 
 
“If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission under sub-section 
(2) of section 6, the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a penalty 
which may extend to one per cent of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, 
of such a combination.” 
 
17. 
As per the details provided by the Parties, the value of their worldwide assets and turnover 
are as follows:  
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/01/241                                                                                                                    Page 12 of 12 
 
Figures in USD Million 
Enterprise 
Assets 
Turnover 
GE 
(For the year ending 31.12.2013) 
656,560.00 
146,045.00 
ALSTOM 
(For the year ending 31.03.2014) 
38,783.71 
27,313.40 
Total 
6,95,343.71 
1,73,358.40 
 
18. 
Accordingly, in terms of Section 43A of the Act, the Commission can levy a maximum 
penalty of one per cent of the combined value of worldwide assets of the Parties i.e. USD 
6,953 million (approximately INR 46,000 crore). While determining the quantum of 
penalty, the Commission considered (a) the bona fide conduct of the Acquirers as regards 
the intent to file the notice, albeit after the expiry of statutory timelines; and (b) the fact 
that the combination was not consummated by the Acquirers without the approval of the 
Commission. In view of the foregoing, the Commission considered it appropriate to 
impose a penalty of INR 5,00,00,000/- (INR five crore only) on the Acquirers, which is 
approximately 0.0001 per cent of the combined value of worldwide assets of the Parties. 
The Acquirers shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of this 
order. 
 
19. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Acquirers accordingly. 
 
 
