     
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                            Page 1 of 18 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
17th May 2022 
 
Proceedings against Veolia Environnement S.A. under Section 43A of the Competition 
Act, 2002 
 
CORAM:  
Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta 
Chairperson 
 
Ms. Sangeeta Verma 
Member 
 
Mr. Bhagwant Singh Bishnoi  
Member 
Appearances during the hearing 
For Veolia Environnement S.A:     Ms. Nisha Kaur Uberoi, Arguing Counsel & Authorised 
Legal Representative, Advocate along with Mr. Gautam 
Chawla, Ms. Harshita Parmar and Ms. Shambhvi Sinha 
Authorised Legal Representatives and Advocates. 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 
1. This Order shall dispose of the proceedings under Section 43A of the Competition 
Act, 2002 (Act) initiated against Veolia Environnement S.A (Veolia) in relation to 
part-consummation of proposed takeover of the Suez S.A. (Suez).  

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 2 of 18 
 
2. Veolia is a listed company headquartered in France and listed on the Euronext Stock 
Exchange in Paris. Veolia is stated to be active in optimized resource management 
and provides water, waste, and energy management solutions to both industrial and 
municipal clients. Through its three business activities, Veolia helps develop access 
to resources, preserve available resources, and replenish them. In India, Veolia 
operates through its subsidiary, Veolia India Private Limited (Veolia India). It offers 
the entire range of water solutions, including engineering and construction services, 
operations and maintenance services, performance contracts, and major maintenance 
and refurbishment tailored to the specific needs of municipality and industry across 
India and, more widely, South Asia.   
3. Suez is a company headquartered in France and is listed on the Euronext Stock 
Exchange in Paris. It is stated to provide water and waste management solutions to 
industrial and municipal clients. It is stated that Suez has been active in India for 
over 30 years and has been helping local authorities and industry develop resource 
management solutions, particularly through contracts to build and operate facilities 
and improve drinking water distribution services, and developing alternative 
resources, such as by reusing wastewater.  
Background  
4. On 17th September 2020, the Competition Commission of India (CCI/Commission) 
received an application from Suez under Section 20(1) and Section 33 of the Act in 
relation to the proposed takeover of Suez by Veolia (Suez Application). In the said 
application, Suez had stated that, based on the press release and public presentation 
prepared by Veolia, Veolia proposed to carry out the proposed takeover in two steps: 
(i) Veolia acquiring 29.9% shareholding in Suez from an existing shareholder, viz., 
Engie S.A (Engie/Seller) [Engie Block Transaction/Relevant Transaction] and 
(ii) Veolia launching a public bid for the remaining Suez shares [Public Offer] 
(Proposed Takeover). 
5. Suez had also submitted in its application that the Proposed Takeover is a 
combination notifiable to the Commission. It was submitted that, while the Proposed 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 3 of 18 
 
Takeover is happening in France, there will be an indirect acquisition of control over 
thirteen (13) Suez India entities by Veolia pursuant to the Proposed Takeover. Based 
on the value of Indian turnover and assets of Suez for the FY ending 31st March 
2019, Suez submitted that the Proposed Takeover will not be able to avail the 
exemption set out in Notification No. S.O. 988(E) dated 27th March 2017 issued by 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), Government of India (Target 
Exemption), as the turnover and assets exceeded the 1000 crore and 350 crore 
thresholds, respectively. With respect to the value of assets and turnover for FY 
ending 31st March 2020, it was submitted that the audited figures for Suez (through 
Suez India entities) were currently unavailable; however, both value of assets and 
turnover for FY ending 31st March 2020 will exceed the figures provided for FY 
ending 31st March 2019.  Further, the combined value of assets of Suez and Veolia 
alone exceed the jurisdictional thresholds set out on Section 5 of the Act. 
6. Suez submitted that the Proposed Takeover warrants close scrutiny to address likely 
post-combination concerns that may arise in Engineering Procurement and 
Construction (EPC) and Operations and Management (O&M) for the construction of 
water and wastewater management facilities. Additionally, Suez submitted that part-
consummation of the Proposed Takeover would lead to (i) combination of two 
significant competitors, resulting in heavy market concentration and (ii) substantial 
lessening of competitive constraints in the markets where Veolia and Suez operate in 
India.  
7. On 22nd September 2020, the Commission considered the application of Suez and 
directed it to file relevant material to support the said claims. Suez provided 
additional/requisite information via its submissions dated 23rd, 24th, and 28th 
September 2020 (Suez’s Submissions). On 29th September 2020, the Commission 
forwarded Suez‟s Submissions, including Suez Application, to Veolia and directed 
that a response be filed by 13th October 2020. 
8. On 13th October 2020, Veolia submitted the response and also filed an additional 
submission on 16th October 2020 (Veolia’s submissions). In its response, Veolia 
submitted that the worldwide asset threshold set out in Section 5(a) of the Act was 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 4 of 18 
 
exceeded by the value of assets of Veolia alone (worldwide and in India). However, 
based on publicly available information and Veolia‟s knowledge and best estimates, 
Veolia understands that the Target Exemption was available for the Engie Block 
Transaction, and, accordingly, this transaction did not require the approval of the 
Commission prior to completion.  
9. By way of background, Veolia submitted that, on 31st July 2020, Engie had 
announced its intention to review its strategic orientation and consider divestments of 
non-core businesses and minority stakes (including its stake in Suez). Following this, 
on 30th August 2020, Veolia made a firm offer for the acquisition of 29.9% of the 
equity shares of Suez from Engie. Pursuant to Engie‟s acceptance of Veolia‟s offer, 
Veolia and Engie entered into a Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) for the purchase 
of Suez shares from Engie on 5th October 2020, and on 6th October 2020, Veolia 
completed the Relevant Transaction. Further, Veolia confirmed its intention to file 
the voluntary public takeover bid for the remaining share capital of Suez.  
10. With respect to the methodology employed by Veolia to estimate Suez‟s revenue in 
India for ascertaining the applicability of Target Exemption to the Relevant 
Transaction, Veolia submitted that, since this transaction was negotiated and 
completed without the involvement of Suez, it had relied on publicly available 
financial statements and information in respect of Suez in its Universal Registration 
Document for 2019 filed with Autorite Des Marches Financiers on 9th April 2020 
under Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 (Suez Registration Document) and applied 
reasonable assumptions based on its knowledge and experience thereon to conclude 
that the revenue generated in India by SUEZ would be less than INR 1,000 crore.  
11. In its response, Veolia clarified that, in the Suez Registration Document,  the 
revenues generated by the Suez group from the Indian subcontinent (including India, 
Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh) for the previous financial year, i.e., the financial year 
ending 31st December 2019, were stated to be EUR 132 million (INR 1,117 crores), 
and based  on knowledge of  its own joint venture with Suez in Bangladesh and the 
information available in the public domain for Sri Lanka, Veolia made reasonable 
assumptions and calculations that Suez‟s revenue in Bangladesh would be EUR 18.2 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 5 of 18 
 
million (approx. INR 154 crores) and in Sri Lanka would be EUR 35 million 
(approx. INR 296 crores). Accordingly, deducting the revenues estimated to be 
generated by Suez in Sri Lanka and in Bangladesh from the total revenue generated 
in the Indian subcontinent by Suez, Veolia arrived at the best estimates of Suez‟s 
revenue in India for the previous financial year as EUR 78.8 million, i.e., approx. 
INR 667 crores, which was below Target Exemption thresholds.  
12. Further, Veolia submitted that, according to the group structure chart for Suez, as 
provided in the Suez Registration Document, Suez had a single subsidiary in India, 
i.e., Suez India Private Limited (SIPL). Therefore, Veolia examined the annual audited 
consolidated financial statements of SIPL, for the financial year ending 31st  March 
2019 [Financial Year (FY) 2018 – 19], as available on the database maintained by 
MCA. The financial statements of SIPL for FY 2018 – 19 showed that the revenue 
generated by SIPL on a consolidated basis was INR 389.8 crore. Accordingly, Veolia 
inferred that the revenue of SIPL for FY 2019 – 20 would also be below the turnover 
threshold of INR 1,000 crores (even if Suez‟s Indian turnover was to be estimated on 
this basis), and therefore, benefitted from the Target Exemption. Veolia also 
submitted that, in any event, should the Commission conclude that the Relevant 
Transaction was notifiable in India, it would file a merger notification without any 
delay. 
13. Furthermore, Veolia contended in its response that the value of Suez‟s Indian 
turnover, as stated in Suez‟s letter to the Commission, was not in line with the 
definition of turnover accepted by the Commission, as it included „other income‟ and 
„revenue generated from intra group sales‟.  
14. On 10th November 2020, the Commission forwarded Veolia‟s submissions to Suez 
and sought additional information/clarifications from Suez in light of Veolia‟s 
submissions, including the details of assets and turnover of Suez in India in terms of 
provisions of Section 5 of the Act, breakup of the enterprise level turnover for each 
of Suez India Entities in terms of intra group/non-intra group/other turnover, and 
comments on the submission filed by Veolia on 13th October 2020.  

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 6 of 18 
 
15. On 18th December 2020, Suez submitted its response to the Commission‟s letter. In 
its response, Suez provided the combined asset and turnover of Suez India entities 
for FY ending 31st March 2020 as well as breakup of the enterprise level turnover for 
each of Suez India Entities in terms of intra group/non-intra group/other turnover for 
FY 2018 – 19 as well as FY 2019 – 20 showing that the Target Exemption was not 
applicable to the Proposed Takeover in either financial year. Further, Suez submitted 
that Veolia did not conduct proper due diligence to identify the proper indirect 
presence of Suez in India. In doing so, Veolia failed to arrive at a reasonable 
estimation of Suez‟s indirect turnover in India. 
Initiation of Proceedings under Section 20(1) and Section 43A of the Act 
16. On 11th January 2021, the Commission considered the various submissions and the 
material placed on record by Suez and Veolia and, upon due consideration of the 
same, was of the opinion that the Target Exemption was not applicable to the 
Proposed Takeover. Further, the asset turnover threshold criteria for the purpose of 
Section 5 of the Act was also satisfied. Therefore, the Proposed Takeover was 
squarely covered as a combination under Section 5 of the Act, and Veolia was 
required to seek approval from the Commission under Section 6(2) of the Act before 
completing the purchase of Suez shares from Engie.  
17. Based on aforesaid, the Commission was of the opinion that the Proposed Takeover 
was notifiable to the Commission, and by partially consummating the same before 
notifying the Commission, Veolia had contravened the provisions of Section 6(2) 
and 6(2A) of the Act. Consequently, the Commission decided to initiate proceedings 
under Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of General Regulations of the 
Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009 (General 
Regulations) against Veolia and issued a Show Cause Notice (SCN) to Veolia dated 
3rd February 2021.  
18. Further, the Commission decided to initiate an inquiry in terms of Section 20(1) of 
the Act read with Regulation 8 of the Competition Commission of India (Procedure 
in regard to the transaction of business relating to Combinations) Regulations, 2011 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 7 of 18 
 
(Combination Regulations) and directed Veolia to file a notice in Form II within 30 
days from the date of receipt of communication from the Commission. 
19. On 5th March 2021, Veolia filed a notice with the Commission in Form II (Merger 
Notification). Subsequently, on 31st March 2021, the Commission, vide its letter 
issued in terms of Regulation 14 of the Combination Regulation (RFI), directed 
Veolia to furnish certain information/clarification(s) in relation to the notice by 7th 
April 2021. Veolia, after seeking extension of time, submitted its response to the RFI 
on 8th June 2021. In its response, Veolia, inter alia, submitted that, on 12th April 
2021, the respective boards of directors of Suez and Veolia had reached an 
agreement in principle on the key terms and conditions to revise the contours of the 
proposed transaction. On 14th May 2021, pursuant to the agreement, in principle:  
a. 
Veolia and Suez, following approval by their respective boards of directors, 
concluded the Combination Agreement, confirming their intention to merge, 
clarifying the conditions of the merger, and structuring the next steps of the 
transaction;  
b. Veolia, Suez, and a consortium of investors (Consortium) composed of 
Meridiam, Global Infrastructure Partner (GIP), and Caisse des Dépôts et 
Consignations Group (including CNP Assurances) (CDC), signed a Memorandum 
of Understanding (MoU) for the creation of New  Suez, which will combine a 
wide range of activities and services currently provided by Suez (Revised 
Agreement)1. 
20. Based on the submissions of Veolia, the Commission, in its meeting held on 24th 
June 2021, noted that the nature of transaction and the scope of the business of Suez 
being acquired by Veolia had changed pursuant to the Revised Agreement. 
Therefore, it was observed that the Merger Notification was not complete and in 
conformity with the Combination Regulations.  Consequently, the notice was 
invalidated and Veolia was directed to submit a fresh notice in Form II. On 15th July 
                                                          
1 On 19th May 2021, as a result of the agreement, Suez withdrew all legal actions before competition authorities 
around the world, including before the Hon‟ble Commission. 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 8 of 18 
 
2021, Veolia submitted the fresh merger notification in Form I. However, since the 
Commission had directed Veolia to file the notice in Form II and also allowed for the 
adjustment of fees already paid, and as Veolia, on its own, had filed the notice in 
Form I, the Commission directed Veolia to file fresh filing fees. The same was filed 
on 4th August 2021. The Commission approved the proposed transaction mentioned 
in the above notice on 23rd November 2021. However, the said approval was without 
prejudice to proceedings under Section 43A. 
21. In relation to the proceedings under Section 43A, Veolia, earlier, on 9th June 2021, 
had submitted a response to SCN  issued under Section 43A of the Act (Response 
dated 9th June 2021) after seeking extensions of time. In that response, Veolia had 
also requested for an oral hearing before the Commission. The Commission, in its 
meeting held on 24th June 2021, considered the said response and directed Veolia to 
appear before the Commission on 15th July 2021. Subsequently, Veolia, vide its letter 
dated 7th July 2021, inter alia, requested the Commission to allow it to submit a 
revised and updated response to the notice under Section 43A of the Act in view of 
the changes in the nature of the transaction and also requested postponement of oral 
hearing to a date after the filing of the revised and updated response. Thereafter, on 
4th August 2021, Veolia submitted a revised response (Response dated 4th August 
2021) to SCN. Veolia also reiterated its request for an oral hearing, which was 
allowed by the Commission.  The Commission heard Veolia at length on 11th 
January 2022. The Commission also allowed Veolia to file written submissions, 
which were filed on 18th January 2022.  
Submissions of Veolia 
22. In response to SCN, Veolia, inter alia, submitted that the reason for not notifying the 
Engie Block Transaction to the Commission was that it was under a bona fide belief 
that the acquisition of the Engie Block was not a notifiable „combination‟ under the 
Act. Veolia submitted that, as a first step, it had to undertake the assessment of the 
applicability of the Target Exemption to the Engie Block and the Proposed 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 9 of 18 
 
Transaction2; however, there were constraints on Veolia from procuring such 
financial data/statements directly from Suez due to the adversarial, unsolicited, and 
hostile nature of the acquisition and the consequent lack of Suez‟s co-operation. 
Thus, Veolia had no option but to rely on the publicly available information and 
documents of Suez, namely, (i) Suez Registration Document and (ii) Suez‟s 
information available on the database maintained by the MCA, to undertake an 
assessment of the thresholds under the Act and the relevant notification, and make 
reasonable assumptions from the same. 
23. Veolia submitted that it did not have access to the detailed financial information of 
Suez provided by Suez to the Commission, which appears to significantly differ from 
the financial information of Suez available in the public domain and which led to the 
conclusion that the Target Exemption is not applicable. The Suez Submission of 18th 
December 2020 which was communicated to Veolia also redacted the financial 
details of relevant Suez entities in India, considering them confidential vis-à-vis 
Veolia. Suez itself expressly stated in its submission that: “This information is not 
available in the public domain and is only known to the Parties and their advisors.” 
Thus, the redactions clearly demonstrated that Veolia could not have had access to 
this financial information prior to the Engie Block Transaction. Accordingly, Veolia 
in no manner can be said to be in contravention of Section 43A of the Act as, based 
on Suez‟s own submission, it can be demonstrated that Veolia could not have had 
access to the financial information prior to (or even after) the acquisition of the Engie 
Block. Thereby, given the limited information available to Veolia, the acquisition of 
the Engie Block (and the Proposed Transaction) availed of the Target Exemption, as 
such, did not trigger any notification requirement under the Act.  
24. Veolia submitted that it has always acted in a bona fide manner throughout the 
proceedings and sought to co-operate to the fullest extent with the Commission. Prior 
to the Merger Notification, Veolia set out its various submissions in a bona fide and 
transparent manner and duly disclosed all the relevant documents/information to the 
                                                          
2 The proposed acquisition of at least 50% + 1 of the share capital of Suez by Veolia through a voluntary public 
takeover bid, i.e., Public Offer under Section 6(2) of the Act (Proposed Transaction).  
 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 10 of 18 
 
Commission in its submissions given on 13th October 2022 and 16th October 2020, 
voluntary PFC request on 18th December 2020, and draft notification on 29th January 
2021. Subsequently, after filing the Merger Notification, when the nature of the 
Proposed Transaction was undergoing a change from a hostile takeover to the current 
construct pertaining to the formation of New Suez, Veolia duly disclosed the same to 
the Commission, providing details of the in-principle agreement between the parties 
and intended aim of entering into a definitive merger agreement by 14th May 2021.  
25. Further, on 15th July 2021, pursuant to the directions of the Commission, Veolia 
submitted a fresh merger notification well within the 30 day period provided by the 
Commission for such filing. The fresh merger notification was submitted in Form I, 
as the combined market shares of the Parties pursuant to the Revised Agreement 
were below 5%. Also, the Suez WTS Business being acquired by Veolia as well as 
the New Suez Business, i.e., the business of Suez being transferred to New Suez 
being acquired by the Consortium, in which Veolia has no shareholding, benefitted 
from Target Exemption. However, without prejudice to the above and in the interest 
of full and complete disclosure and cooperation with the Commission, given that the 
consolidated value of assets and turnover of Suez as a whole in India exceeded the 
thresholds for Target Exemption, the fresh merger notification was submitted to the 
Commission in accordance with the Commission‟s direction to re-notify. 
26. Veolia submitted that the Proposed Transaction, in any case, will not have any 
Appreciable Adverse Effect on Competition (AAEC) in any market in India, since 
the activities in relation to (i) the markets for drinking water management services 
and wastewater management services in India, and (ii) the overall market for waste 
management services in India (i.e., recycling of ferrous and non-ferrous metals (from 
scrap) in India) would be simultaneously (or very shortly thereafter) transferred to 
New Suez, in which Veolia will have no direct or indirect shareholding by the end of 
2021, and in the water technologies solutions (WTS) market in India, (i) Suez‟s 
presence is insignificant and limited to industrial customers only, (ii) Veolia has no 
presence in this market and has no industrial customers in India, and (iii) this market 
is characterized by the presence of several large established players. Moreover, 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 11 of 18 
 
Veolia and New Suez would continue (i) to remain competitors post the Proposed 
Transaction in the markets for provision of drinking water management services in 
India and wastewater management services in India, and (ii) to operate in different 
segments of the overall market for waste management services in India. Moreover, 
Suez has failed to demonstrate any prejudice/injury caused to Suez or competition in 
India by Veolia‟s alleged failure to notify the acquisition of the Engie Block 
Transaction.  
27. Further, Veolia submitted that competition regulators in other jurisdictions, such as 
Europe or Canada, where Suez had claimed similar gun-jumping issues, appreciated 
the bona fide intentions of Veolia and have either (i) rejected the gun-jumping claim 
by Suez or (ii) have found it appropriate not to initiate any gun-jumping proceedings 
against Veolia for the acquisition of the Engie Block or impose any penalty on 
Veolia.  Further, in India, the report of the Competition Law Review Committee 
(CLRC Report) recommended that standstill obligations under the Act be modified 
to allow parties to complete on-market purchases, including unsolicited acquisitions. 
Veolia submitted that the proposed conditions of the Draft Regulation and the 
Amendment Bill are met in the present case  
28. Veolia stated that it had no intention to avoid the jurisdiction or escape the 
Commission‟s merger review. In fact, Veolia acts in compliance with all the laws of 
the country, including the Act, and has put in place a Competition Law Compliance 
Policy as a responsible corporate entity. Further, it has never been in contravention of 
the provisions of the Act, and thus, a lenient view may be taken by the Commission 
with respect to the acquisition of the Engie Block Transaction. 
Commission’s Analysis and Finding 
29.  The Commission has considered the submissions of Veolia as well as heard the 
arguments advanced by the learned counsel. It is observed that, as per the provisions 
of the Act, when Veolia made a firm offer for the acquisition of 29.9% of the share 
capital of Suez and voting rights from Engie on 30th August 2020, there was an 
obligation upon Veolia to file a notice under Section 6(2) of the Act. However, it 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 12 of 18 
 
completed the purchase of shares from Engie without filing any notice with the 
Commission. Therefore, the issue for determination in relation to the SCN issued to 
Veolia is “Whether Veolia, by partially consummating the Proposed Takeover i.e., 
completing the Engie Block Transaction without filing a notice under Section 6(2) of 
the Act, has contravened the provisions of Section 6(2A) of the Act and is, hence, 
liable for penalty under section 43 A of the Act.” 
30. As stated earlier, Veolia has contended that it was under a bona fide belief that the 
Engie Block transaction benefitted from the Target Exemption. Since it was a case of 
hostile takeover accurate values of assets and turnover of Suez in India was not 
available, therefore, reasonable assumptions were made based on publicly available 
information.  
31. However, Suez, in its response dated 18th December 2020, contended that Veolia had 
not adhered to the very minimum standards of due diligence while identifying the 
Indian presence of Suez and assessing the Indian assets and turnover of Suez for 
ascertaining the notifiability of the Proposed Takeover. Suez in its response referred 
to multiple publicly available sources that would have shown that SIPL is not the 
only subsidiary/indirect presence of Suez in India. For instance, Suez submitted that:  
a. Veolia failed to consider Suez‟s subsidiaries, namely, (i) Driplex Water 
Engineering Private Limited and (ii) Driplex Water Engineering International 
Private Limited (jointly Driplex) even though the website of Suez India 
mentioned that Suez had acquired stakes in Driplex in 2016 and further in 2017. 
This information was also available in its press release dated 22nd January 2016. 
Further, the Suez Registration Document relied on by Veolia also mentions the 
majority stake acquisition of Driplex by Suez. While this information was 
available widely, Veolia failed to consider Driplex as a subsidiary of Suez while 
calculating the “best estimate” turnover.  
b. Similarly, Veolia also failed to consider Suez‟s subsidiary, namely, Suez Water 
Technology & Solutions (India) Private Limited. As available on the website for 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 13 of 18 
 
Suez Water Technologies and Solutions, Suez acquired GE Water in 2017. The 
same is also available in the form of a press release dated 2nd October 2017.  
c. Veolia also failed to consider Suez‟s subsidiary Suez Projects Private Limited, 
even though it was mentioned in a news article dated 13th December 2019 that 
the Suez group, through Suez Projects Private Limited, had entered into a 
contract for the rehabilitation and operation of drinking water distribution in 
Mangalore, India.  
d. Further, Veolia failed to consider Suez‟s joint venture with SMPL in India, when 
Suez, on its website, had clarified that it formed a joint venture with SMPL in 
India to develop the water distribution facility in Delhi. 
32. Having considered submissions received from Veolia and Suez, it appears that, while 
Veolia has asserted that it acted in a bona fide manner and made all reasonable 
attempts to ascertain the assets and turnover of Suez in India for the purposes of 
assessing the applicability of Target Exemption, the conduct indicates to the 
contrary. For instance, Veolia has contended that the actual asset and turnover 
figures of the Target in India were not available with it at the time of acquisition of 
Engie Block and it believed that Suez had only one (01) India entity, i.e., SIPL. 
However, based on the sequence of events, it appears that, at least a week before the 
Engie Block Transaction, the Commission had forwarded to Veolia Suez Application 
and other Suez submissions, which identified thirteen (13) Suez India entities as well 
as provided the value of Indian turnover and assets of Suez for the FY ending 31st 
March 2019 (from select eight (08) Suez India Entities). As such, the communication 
from the Commission ought to have raised doubts about the assumptions made by 
Veolia, and it could have approached the Commission to seek clarification about the 
applicability of Target Exemption to the Proposed Takeover prior to completion of 
the Engie Block Transaction. Instead, Veolia consummated the Engie Block 
Transaction on 6th October 2020. Further, Veolia has submitted that it voluntarily 
approached the Commission by way of a pre-filing consultation (PFC) on 18th 
December 2020, in relation to the Merger Notification. However, the Commission is 
constrained to note that Veolia approached for such PFC in respect of the Proposed 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 14 of 18 
 
Transaction long after the completion of the Engie Block Transaction.  In any case, 
PFC facility is non-binding in nature and provided only to assist the parties to 
comply with the requirements of the Act.  
33. Notwithstanding whether the conduct of Veolia was bona fide or not, the values of 
asset and turnover for Suez India entities for the year FY 2018 – 19 as well as FY 
2019 – 20 establish that the Proposed Takeover did not benefit from Target 
Exemption. Hence, as per the provisions of the Act, Veolia was required to file a 
notice with the Commission under Section 6(2) of the Act, prior to completion of the 
Engie Block Transaction, and by not doing so, it breached the provisions of Section 
6(2A) of the Act. The position that Section 43A would be attracted in case of such 
breach irrespective of  intent has been laid down by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in 
Competition Commission of India v. Thomas Cook (India) Limited3, wherein the 
Hon‟ble Supreme Court observed as under: 
 “.... For the imposition of penalty under section 43A, the action may not be mala 
fide in case there is a breach of the statutory provisions of the civil law, penalty is 
attracted simpliciter on its violation.” 
 Further, it was observed that:  
“There was no requirement of mens rea under section 43A or intentional breach as 
an essential element for levy of penalty. Section 43A of the Act does not use the 
expression "the failure has to be willful or mala fide" for the purpose of imposition of 
penalty. The breach of the provision is punishable and considering the nature of the 
breach, it is open to impose the penalty.”  
Similar observations were made by the Supreme Court in SCM Solifert Limited & 
Anr v. Competition Commission of India4 also. 
34. It is to be noted that the merger control regime in India is mandatory and suspensory 
in nature. Section 5 provides the assets and turnover criteria to determine which 
                                                          
3 Civil Appeal No.13578 of 2015 
4 Civil Appeal No. 10678 of 2016 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 15 of 18 
 
acquisitions of control/shares/voting rights/assets or mergers and amalgamations will 
amount to combination under the Act. Section 6(2) of the Act mandates parties to 
give notice in respect of the proposed combination. In case of acquisitions, the 
trigger for notifying the transaction to the Commission is the execution of any 
agreement or other document for the acquisition of control/shares/voting rights/assets 
referred to in Section 5(a) or acquiring of control referred to in Section 5(b) of the 
Act. Section 6(2A) of the Act provides that a combination notified to the 
Commission shall not come into effect for a period of 210 days from the date of 
notification or earlier approval by the Commission. The provisions in effect imply 
that the merger and acquisitions that can be considered combinations in terms of 
Section 5 of the Act are mandatorily notifiable to the Commission, and therefore, 
cannot be consummated, either entirely or in part, without approval from the 
Commission, unless they are exempted by Government of India notification or are 
combinations that fall under Schedule 1 of Combination Regulation, in respect of 
which, a notice need not normally be filed. As noted above, the Engie Block 
Transaction was not exempted by any Government of India notification. Also, it was 
not covered under Schedule 1 of Combination Regulations and was required to be 
notified to the Commission prior to consummation. Such statutory obligation of 
Veolia was independent of any action that may have been initiated by Suez with the 
Commission.  
35. Also, it is pertinent to note that the mandatory regime for notifying a proposed 
combination to the Commission is applicable irrespective of whether the 
combination causes any AAEC in India or not. In this regard, the Commission, in its 
order relating to penalty proceedings under Section 43A of the Act against Intellect 
Design Arena Limited, has already observed: “…. the Act clearly provides, 
irrespective of whether there is any appreciable adverse effect on Competition in 
India or not, there is mandatory regime for notifying a combination to the 
Commission.”  
36. Further, the approval of the combination by the Commission also does not imply that 
penalty under Section 43A of the Act will not be attracted for failure to file notice 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 16 of 18 
 
with the Commission under Section 6(2) of the Act. This position has been clearly 
laid down by the  Hon‟ble Supreme Court in SCM Solifert Limited & Anr v. 
Competition Commission of India5, as under:  
“The factum of the approval of the combination subsequently by the Commission is 
not going to provide an insulation when the provisions of the Act have been 
violated and prior notice had not been given under section 6(2). It was open to 
impose a penalty under section 43A. Merely by grant of approval by the 
Commission violation of provisions does not become condonable ipso facto” 
37. With respect to the contentions of Veolia regarding the decisions taken by other 
competition authorities in relation to gun jumping issues, it is observed that the 
decisions of other competition authorities are specific to their regulatory 
requirements. The same may not be applicable to the Indian framework. The method 
of evaluating transactions and the waiting/compliance timelines required to be 
adhered to by the Parties might be different for foreign competition authorities. 
Therefore, reliance cannot be placed on the decisions of other competition authorities 
to assess contravention under the provisions of the Act.  
38. Further, the reliance placed by Veolia on the exemption which may be provided by a 
proposed legislation is also misplaced, as the proposed amendment is not notified or 
approved by the Parliament as yet. The contravention needs to be assessed on the 
basis of existing laws and not on prospective laws in the pipeline. Further, Veolia has 
highlighted the structural changes made to the transaction; however, such structural 
changes were made subsequent to the contravention by Veolia, i.e., post the 
acquisition of Engie Block. In any case, the emergence of a structural change/remedy 
does not absolve the Party of contravention/breach of the provision of the Act.  
39. Thus, in light of the above, the Commission finds that Veolia, by acquisition of 
Engie Block without filing a notice with the Commission in terms of Section 6(2) of 
the Act prior to acquisition, has contravened the provisions of Section 6(2A) of the 
                                                          
5 Civil Appeal No. 10678 of 2016 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 17 of 18 
 
Act and hence, is liable for penalty under Section 43A of the Act, which reads as 
under: 
“If any person or enterprise fails to give notice under Section 6(2) of the Act, the 
Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a penalty which may 
extend to one per cent of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, of 
such a combination” 
40. It is to be noted that Section 43A of the Act prescribes the extent of penalty that can 
be levied for failure to file notice; however, the Commission has sufficient discretion 
to consider the conduct of the parties and circumstances of the case to arrive at an 
appropriate penalty. 
41. Veolia, in its response to SCN, has submitted that, in the event that Veolia is 
considered to have acted in contravention of Section 43A of the Act, the Commission 
should consider factors such as no mala fide intention on the part of Veolia to evade 
compliance of the provisions of the Act, proposed amendment in recognition of the 
lacuna in the law relating to public market purchases, no previous violations of the 
Act by Veolia, bona fide and transparent disclosure of requisite information, 
continuous co-operation with the Commission‟s inquiry under Section 20(1) of the 
Act, no prejudice to competition and no AAEC in the Indian market regardless of the 
transaction undertaken, and non-initiation gun-jumping proceedings against Veolia 
for the Engie Block by other jurisdictions as mitigating factors and impose no 
penalty on Veolia.  
42. The Commission finds that none of the above factors absolve Veolia of its obligation 
to file a notice prior to the consummation of the Engie Block Transaction. Further, 
the fact that Veolia failed to approach the Commission before the consummation of 
the Engie Block Transaction on 6th October 2020, even though it had received the 
communication of the Commission along with the Suez application and other Suez 
submissions on 29th September 2020, which clearly indicated non-applicability of the 
Target Exemption to the Proposed takeover, runs counter to the contention of Veolia 
that there was no intent on its part to evade compliance of the provisions of the Act. 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 18 of 18 
 
However, considering that Veolia extended cooperation during the inquiry and 
supplied requisite material/documents in response to the information requirement of 
the Commission can be considered mitigating factors. Thus, while the Commission 
acknowledges that Veolia has been cooperative through the course of the 
proceedings; however, it cannot be exculpated of the statutory obligation to file a 
notice with the Commission prior to the consummation of the proposed combination.  
43. Thus, considering the facts and circumstances of the case and the conduct of Veolia, 
the Commission decides to impose a penalty of INR 1,00,00,000/- (Rupees One 
Crore Only) on Veolia. Veolia shall pay the penalty within 60 days from the date of 
receipt of this order. 
44. Further, it is made clear that nothing used in this order shall be deemed to be 
confidential or deemed to have been granted confidentiality, as the same have been 
used for the purposes of the Act in terms of the provisions contained in Section 57 
thereof. 
45. The Secretary is directed to inform Veolia accordingly. 
