 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
C-2015/09/312                                                                                                                       Page 1 of 7 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
  (Combination Registration No. C-2015/09/312) 
7th June, 2017 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 against Avago Technologies Limited 
in relation to Combination Registration No. C-2015/09/312 
 
1. On 28th September, 2015, the Competition Commission of India (“Commission”) received 
a notice given by Avago Technologies Limited (“Avago”), pursuant to an enquiry initiated 
under sub-section (1) of Section 20 of the Competition Act, 2002 (“Act”), for acquisition of 
Broadcom Corporation (“Broadcom”) by Avago. For the purpose of the acquisition an 
Agreement and Plan of Merger was executed, inter alia, between Avago and Broadcom on 
28th May, 2015 (“Agreement”). (Hereinafter, Avago and Broadcom are collectively 
referred to as the “Parties”).  
 
Background 
 
2. The Commission, based on media reports, initiated an inquiry under sub-section (1) of 
Section 20 of the Act in the above said acquisition and vide letter dated 12th August, 2015, 
directed Avago to provide data / information on the asset and turnover of the Parties. 
Pending Commission’s inquiry under sub-section (1) of Section 20 of the Act, Avago filed 
a notice of combination on 28th September, 2015 along with its response to the 
Commission’s letter dated 12th August, 2015.  
 
3. The Commission, in its meeting held on 16th December 2015, approved the said 
combination under sub-section (1) of Section 31 of the Act without prejudice to any penalty 
proceedings that may be initiated under Section 43A of the Act. Accordingly, vide letter 
dated 2nd February, 2016, the Commission issued a show cause notice (“SCN”), under 
Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India 
(General) Regulations, 2009 (“General Regulations”), to explain, in writing, as to why 
penalty, in terms of Section 43A of the Act, should not be imposed on Avago for not filing 
the notice within thirty days of execution of binding document. Avago submitted its 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
C-2015/09/312                                                                                                                       Page 2 of 7 
 
response to show cause notice on 7th March, 2016 (“Response to SCN”). Further, Avago 
made certain submissions vide its letter dated 16th February, 2017. 
 
Proceedings under Section 43A of the Act 
  
4. In terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, any person or an enterprise, who or 
which proposes to enter into a combination, is required to give notice to the Commission, 
disclosing the details of the combination, within thirty days of execution of any agreement 
or other document for acquisition. Sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act reads as under: 
 
“…… any person or enterprise, who or which proposes to enter into a combination, shall 
give notice to the Commission………. disclosing the details of the proposed combination, 
within thirty days of…….… execution of any agreement or other document for acquisition 
referred to in clause (a) of section 5 or acquiring of control referred to in clause (b) of 
that section” (emphasis added) 
 
5. The Commission observed that the Agreement was signed on 28th May, 2015. Further, the 
Parties, for the reasons set forth in subsequent paragraphs, satisfy jurisdictional threshold, 
in terms of combined assets and turnover of the Parties, as provided in Section 5 of the Act. 
Accordingly, in terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, Avago ought to have filed 
the Notice regarding the combination with the Commission within thirty days of the 
execution of the Agreement i.e. by about 26th May, 2015. However, the Parties filed a 
Notice in Form I only on 28th September 2015, subsequent to initiation of an inquiry under 
sub-section (1) of Section 20 of the Act, with a delay of approximately 123 days.  In view 
of the above, the Commission was of the prima facie opinion that Avago failed to give 
notice of the combination within the time stipulated under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of 
the Act. The Commission observed that failure to give notice in accordance with sub-
section (2) of Section 6 of the Act attracts penalty under Section 43A of the Act.  
 
Submissions of Avago 
 
6. Avago, vide its letters dated 28th September, 2015 and 7th March, 2016, has submitted that 
Broadcom has two wholly owned Indian subsidiaries in India viz, Broadcom 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
C-2015/09/312                                                                                                                       Page 3 of 7 
 
Communications Technologies Pvt. Ltd. (“BCTPL”) and Broadcom Semiconductors India 
Private Limited (“BSIPL”) and that the assets and turnover of Broadcom for financial year 
ending 31st March, 2015 was about [….], respectively. It has further been submitted that out 
of total revenue of approximately [….], [….] was intra-group export revenue. Therefore, 
Broadcom had turnover of only [….] in India. Thus, Avago has contended that the said 
transaction was exempt from any notification requirement under Government of India 
Notification No. S.O. 482(E) dated 4th March, 2011 (as amended by the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs Corrigendum No. S.O. 1218(E) dated 27th May, 2011) (“Target 
Exemption” / “De Minimis Exemption”) as combined turnover of BCTPL and BSIPL (i.e. 
the target enterprise) in India is less than INR 750 crore for the financial year ending 31st 
March, 2015.  
 
7. The Commission, in its meeting held on 13th December, 2016, considered the Response to 
SCN and decided to grant a personal hearing to Avago, on their request. The authorized 
representative of Avago appeared before the Commission on 14th February, 2017. The 
Commission noted that vide its written and oral submissions, Avago has made, inter alia, 
the following submissions: 
 
7.1 The combination was exempt from the provisions of the Act by virtue of the De Minimis 
Exemption and Avago has not violated sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act by failing 
to give notice to the Commission within 30 days of executing the binding agreement. 
Further, Avago has stated that failure to give notice under sub-section (2) of Section 6 is a 
prerequisite for the Commission to levy penalty under Section 43A of the Act. Since, this 
prerequisite is absent, Section 43A is inapplicable. 
 
7.2 The Commission does not have jurisdiction to consider this transaction and that this issue 
should have been addressed prior to the Commission issuing a SCN under Section 43A of 
the Act. 
 
7.3 It has been submitted that the present transaction qualifies for the De Minimis Exemption 
for three reasons:  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
C-2015/09/312                                                                                                                       Page 4 of 7 
 
7.3.1 
The comprehensive assessment of the said transaction by the parties conducted prior 
to the notification had suggested that the merger filings were required in certain 
other countries but not in India. Acting with reasonable care in this assessment, the 
parties concluded that the transaction is not subject to the duty of pre-notification to 
the Commission under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. 
 
7.3.2 
The entire turnover of BCTPL and BSIPL for the financial year ended 31st  March, 
2015, was on account of intra-group research & development and marketing support 
services for the international Broadcom Group as a whole, and is entirely intra-
group turnover. Under the accounting procedures followed by Broadcom namely, 
US GAAP, intra-group sales are eliminated from revenue reporting at the group 
level and therefore do not count as reportable revenues and should be excluded from 
consideration. 
 
7.3.3 
In addition, the Notes to Form-II of the Combination Regulations provide that 
“[f]or the purpose of figures in this Form the accounting standards, as notified by 
the Government of India, from time to time, or the International Financial 
Reporting Standards or the US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles shall be 
followed.”  
 
7.4 In support of its above said contention, Avago has claimed that the definition of an 
“enterprise” under the Act suggests entities forming part of the same group should be 
considered as a single economic entity. Avago has contended that in calculating the 
applicable turnover thresholds, the Act looks at the value of sales of goods or services 
generated by that single economic entity. Further, it is contended that nowhere does the 
Act state or suggests that “turnover” includes the value of goods transferred within that 
economic entity and that the Commission has not published any opinion or interpretation 
treating intra-group revenues within a single enterprise as turnover for these purposes. 
Furthermore, an interpretation contrary to the above would be inconsistent with Indian 
Accounting standards, as well the accounting practices of other jurisdictions. 
 
7.5 Avago has further submitted that it would be incorrect to apply such a standard when no 
language in the Act, the published decisions and interpretations of this Commission, 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
C-2015/09/312                                                                                                                       Page 5 of 7 
 
Indian accounting standard, or the accounting standards of the countries in which the 
parties are based state that intra-group revenue should be treated as turnover. 
 
7.6 Avago has also submitted that the combination was consummated only after the Parties 
received approval of the Commission. 
 
Observations of the Commission 
 
8. The Commission, having examined and analysed the submissions of Avago, observed as 
follows: 
 
8.1 The said transaction is a notifiable combination (for the reasons set out in the latter 
sections) since it does not qualify for De Minimis Exemption and accordingly, the 
Commission proceeds under Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the 
General Regulations. 
 
8.2 The fact that the Commission had approved the combination under sub-section (1) of 
Section 31 of the Act, vide its order dated 16th December, 2015, confirms that the 
Commission had ascertained its jurisdiction over the combination. An order under sub-
section (1) of Section 31 of the Act can be passed only in case of a combination (as 
defined under Section 5 of the Act). 
 
8.3 In the present case, Avago submitted notice in Form I along with response to the 
Commission’s communication dated 12th August, 2015, subsequent to initiation of 
enquiry under sub-section (1) of Section 20 of the Act, with a delay of approximately 123 
days from the date of execution of binding document. Further, the Commission observed 
that Avago did not avail of the facility of pre-filing consultation offered by the 
Combination Division.  
 
8.4 As regards turnover, in terms of Section 2(y) of the Act, “turnover” includes “value of 
sale of goods or services”. Thus, the statutory definition of turnover under the Act does 
not provide that goods or services provided to group-entities are to be excluded. In this 
regard, it is noted that in terms of explanation (c) to Section 5 of the Act,  

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
C-2015/09/312                                                                                                                       Page 6 of 7 
 
“the value of assets shall be determined by taking the book value of the assets as 
shown, in the audited books of account of the enterprise, in the financial year 
immediately preceding the financial year in which the date of proposed merger falls, 
as reduced by any depreciation, and the value of assets shall include the brand value, 
value of goodwill, or value of copyright, patent, permitted use, collective mark, 
registered proprietor, registered trade mark, registered user, homonymous 
geographical indication, geographical indications, design or layout- design or similar 
other commercial rights, if any, referred to in sub-section (5) of Section 3”.  
 
8.5 Accordingly, value of turnover is taken as provided in the books of accounts of the 
enterprise concerned. In the instant case, the turnover of Broadcom (comprising of 
turnover of BCTPL and BSIPL), as appearing in their books of account, is about [….]. 
Further, it is noted that the profit and loss statement of BCTPL and BSIPL does not 
distinguish between the revenue generated through intra-group sales or through sales to 
third parties.  
 
8.6 Thus, based on the book value, assets and turnover of BCTPL and BSIPL, exceeds the De 
Minims Exemption threshold applicable at that point of time and therefore the said 
combination becomes a notifiable transaction.  
 
9. In view of the foregoing, the Commission is of the considered opinion that there is a 
contravention of the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act as Avago failed to 
notify the combination within stipulated time.  
 
10. It is reiterated that the fact of approval of the combination on assessment that it does not 
raise any appreciable adverse effect on Competition (“AAEC”) in India, based on analysis 
of various factors does not confer any immunity to the appellants from being penalized 
under Section 43A of the Act for failure to comply with the regulatory obligation(s) of the 
party(ies) under the Act. Moreover, the Act clearly provides, irrespective of whether there 
is any AAEC or not, mandatory regime for notifying a combination to the Commission. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
C-2015/09/312                                                                                                                       Page 7 of 7 
 
11. The Commission observed that the Parties had not consummated the transaction before an 
order under Section 31 of the Act was passed, which, at best, can be taken as a mitigating 
factor to be considered while imposing monetary penalty. 
 
12. In view of the foregoing, it emerges that Avago have failed to give notice to the 
Commission in accordance with the provision of  sub-section (2) of Section 6, which 
attracts penalty under Section 43A of the Act. Section 43A of the Act reads as under: 
“If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission under sub-section 
(2) of Section 6, the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a penalty which 
may extend to one per cent of the total turnover or assets, whichever is higher, of such a 
combination” 
 
13. Accordingly, in terms of Section 43A of the Act, a maximum penalty of one per cent of the 
combined value of worldwide assets of the Parties can be imposed. However, considering 
the totality of the facts of the case and explanation given by Avago, the Commission 
deemed it appropriate to impose a penalty of INR 10,00,000/- lakh (INR ten lakh only) on 
Avago. 
 
14. Avago shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of this order. 
 
15. The Secretary is directed to communicate to Avago accordingly. 
