 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 1 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
12.03.2018 
Notice given under Section 6(2) of the Competition Act, 2002 by  
UltraTech Cement Limited: Combination Regn. No. C-2015/02/246 
 
 
CORAM: 
Mr. Devender Kumar Sikri 
Chairperson 
 
Mr. Sudhir Mital 
Member 
 
Mr. Augustine Peter 
Member 
 
Mr. U. C. Nahta 
Member 
 
Mr. G. P. Mittal 
Member 
 
 
Appearances during Oral hearing on 03.10.2017 for UltraTech Cement Limited: 
Mr. Somasekhar Sundaresan, Advocate, Ms Nisha Kaur Uberoi, Advocate,  Ms Soumya 
Hariharan, Advocate, Ms Atreyee Sarkar, Advocate, Ms Ankita Gulati, Advocate, Mr. Paresh 
Thakker, General Counsel, UltraTech, Mr. Subodh Sista, Legal Manager – M&A, UltraTech 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002  
 
A. 
Background 
 
1. 
On 17.02.2015, the Competition Commission of India (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Commission”) received a notice (“Notice”), under Section 6(2) of the Competition Act, 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 2 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
2002 (“Act”), filed by UltraTech Cement Limited (“UltraTech”/ “Acquirer”). The notice 
of combination was given pursuant to execution of an Implementation Agreement between 
UltraTech and Jaiprakash Associates Limited (“JAL”/ “Seller”) on 23.01.2015 (“IA”) 
(hereinafter UltraTech and JAL are collectively referred to as the “Parties”). The 
combination related to transfer of business, assets and operations of two cement plants 
(including captive power plants), located at Bela and Sidhi in Madhya Pradesh (“Target 
Assets”), owned by JAL, to UltraTech, on a going concern and slump exchange basis, 
through a scheme of arrangement under Section 391 to Section 394 of the erstwhile 
Companies Act, 1956 (“Combination”). On 10.04.2015, the Commission approved the 
Combination by passing an order under Section 31(1) of the Act (“Order”). However, the 
Order was passed without prejudice to any proceedings under Section 43A of the Act. 
 
B. 
Initiation of proceedings under Section 43A of the Act  
 
2. 
In terms of Section 6(2) of the Act, an enterprise, which proposes to enter into a 
combination, is required to give a notice to the Commission, disclosing the details of the 
proposed combination, within thirty days of the execution of any agreement or other 
document for acquisition. Further, as per Section 6(2A) of the Act, no combination shall 
come into effect until 210 days have passed from the day on which the notice has been 
given to the Commission under Section 6(2) or the Commission has passed order under 
Section 31 of the Act, whichever is earlier.  
 
3. 
During the review of the Combination, the Commission noted that the Acquirer had 
provided a corporate guarantee to Axis Bank Limited (“Axis Bank”) in favour of JAL 
based on which Axis Bank had advanced a loan of INR 500 Crores to JAL. Considering 
the minutes of the meeting of Board of Directors of UltraTech (“Board”) held on 
23.12.2014 (“First Meeting”) and the conditions contained in Memorandum of 
Understanding executed between the Parties on 23.12.2014 (“MOU”), the Commission 
formed an opinion that extension of the aforesaid loan has the effect of consummating a 
part of the Combination without the approval of the Commission and therefore, UltraTech 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 3 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
has failed to give notice in accordance with Section 6(2) of the Act. Accordingly, a show 
cause notice was issued to UltraTech on 23.04.2015 under Section 43A of the Act read 
with Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009 
(“General Regulations”) (“SCN”). The SCN required the Acquirer to show cause, in 
writing, within 15 days of receipt of the same, as to why penalty, in terms of Section 43A 
of the Act, should not be imposed on it for failure to file notice of the Combination in 
accordance with Section 6(2) of the Act. The Acquirer filed its reply to the SCN on 
22.05.2015 (“Response to SCN”) along with a request for oral hearing, in terms of 
Regulation 48 of the General Regulations. 
 
4. 
In its meeting held on 25.08.2017, the Commission considered the Response to SCN and 
decided to grant an oral hearing to the Acquirer. Accordingly, the Acquirer presented its 
case before the Commission on 03.10.2017 and also made written submissions on the same 
date. 
 
C. 
Submissions of the Acquirer 
 
5. 
In the Response to SCN and during oral submissions, UltraTech contended the following: 
 
Sequence of events leading to filing of the Notice 
 
5.1 
That the Board of UltraTech initially evaluated the transaction forming subject matter 
of the Combination in the First Meeting and pursuant to the same, the Board granted 
preliminary approval for the transaction, subject to due diligence. The approval of the 
Board was limited to execution of the MOU.  
 
5.2 
Pursuant to the First Meeting, the Parties entered into the MOU which merely 
demonstrated the Parties’ intention to enter into the Combination and the same was 
valid only until the execution of definitive agreements. As is customary in large 
proposed transactions, the MOU also contemplated a period of exclusivity in 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 4 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
preference to or in substitution of the Combination. The Parties proposed to enter into 
a binding definitive agreement within four weeks from the MOU, subject to due 
diligence. 
 
5.3 
JAL had a total debt of approximately INR 28,000 Crores on its books as on 
31.03.2014. In light of its distressed financial position, JAL approached Axis Bank 
for availing financial assistance by way of a short term loan. In this regard, JAL and 
Axis Bank executed a short term credit facility agreement on 24.12.2014 by way of 
which Axis Bank agreed to advance a credit facility of INR 500 Crores to JAL for a 
period of nine months (“Short Term Loan”). The Parties had successfully concluded 
one transaction in the past where the Acquirer had acquired cement assets in Gujarat 
from the wholly owned subsidiary of JAL. On JAL’s request, the Acquirer provided 
a corporate guarantee to Axis Bank and executed a deed of guarantee on 24.12.2014 
in favour of Axis Bank in relation to the Short Term Loan. 
 
5.4 
Subsequently, on 23.01.2015, the Board considered and granted its final approval to 
the transaction (“Second Meeting”), including the draft scheme to be presented before 
a court for sanction which was, inter alia, subject to approval of the Commission, 
demonstrating clear intent of the Acquirer to comply with all applicable laws. As a 
result of due diligence findings, the Board was also informed that the consideration 
for the Combination was reduced from INR 5,400 Crores (as mentioned in the MOU) 
to INR 5,325 Crores. 
 
5.5 
Pursuant to the Second Meeting, the Parties entered into the IA which set out the 
definitive manner of effecting the Combination, based on which the Acquirer filed the 
Notice.  
 
The MOU did not constitute the trigger for notification under the Act 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 5 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
5.6 
That the trigger document for the purpose of notifying the Combination to the 
Commission was the IA, being the binding agreement detailing the Acquirer’s 
commitment to acquire the assets and the manner in which such acquisition was to be 
made and not the MOU. The Acquirer made elaborate submissions as to why signing 
of the MOU cannot be considered as a trigger event and how there is no failure on the 
part of the Acquirer to file notice under Section 6(2) of the Act.  
 
Section 43A empowers the Commission to impose penalty only in case of failure to 
file notice under Section 6(2) of the Act and not for gun jumping 
 
5.7 
Section 6(2A) of the Act provides that “no combination shall come into effect” until 
210 days have passed from the date of filing of notice under Section 6(2) of the Act 
or until the combination is approved by the Commission. Section 43A of the Act 
empowers the Commission to impose penalty only in case of failure to give notice 
under Section 6(2) of the Act and not for gun jumping (in violation of Section 6(2A) 
of the Act). 
 
The extension of corporate guarantee did not lead to part consummation of the 
Combination 
 
5.8 
That the hold separate rules which prevent parties from implementing a proposed 
transaction apply after the execution of binding documents until the approval of the 
transaction by competition authorities. The arrangement in question, i.e., the Short 
Term Loan, did not occur between the signing of definitive documents in relation to 
the Combination and approval of the same by the Commission. Any conclusion that 
the arrangement resulted in consummation of the Combination would be anomalous 
since there was no possibility of any definitive agreement between the Parties in 
relation to the Combination given that the Board only approved the Acquirer 
proposing to acquire Target Assets on 23.01.2015. 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 6 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
5.9 
While the MOU lapsed on 23.01.2015 and the Acquirer or JAL would have had the 
option to walk out of any further negotiations, the obligation of the Acquirer to step-
in in the event of default by JAL to repay the Short Term Loan or the obligation of 
JAL to repay the same was not conditional on due diligence findings and did not cease 
on 23.01.2015. The loan amount was repayable irrespective of the Combination. 
 
5.10 
The Parties did not violate the standstill obligations under the Act given that they did 
not take any steps that brought or resulted in the Combination coming into ‘effect’ 
prior to its approval by the Commission as the Acquirer exercised no control over the 
Target Assets by virtue of the provision of corporate guarantee against the Short Term 
Loan. 
 
5.11 
As per the IA, the closing of the Combination was subject to several conditions 
precedent including the approval of the Combination by the Commission. Pursuant to 
the IA, the Parties have maintained status quo in relation to Target Assets and there 
has been no acquisition of control by the Acquirer, de jure or de facto. As on the date 
of approval of the Combination by the Commission, the Combination was still subject 
to the approval of the shareholders of the Acquirer and other regulatory approvals and 
the Target Assets continued to be managed by JAL and the Acquirer had no control 
over the same.   
 
5.12 
The provision of corporate guarantee by the Acquirer to Axis Bank in relation to the 
Short Term Loan: 
 
(a) did not provide the Acquirer any Board seat or veto rights or any ability to 
control the operations of the Target Assets; 
 
(b) did not give the Acquirer the power to determine the commercial behaviour of 
the Target Assets; 
 
(c) did not impede the Parties’ ability to act as independent competitors; 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 7 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
(d) did not grant any access, to the Acquirer, of the Target’s competitively sensitive 
information; 
 
(e) did not provide the Acquirer any right to get interim profits of the Target 
Assets; 
 
(f) did not provide the Acquirer any right to dispose of the Target Assets; 
 
(g) neither compromised the Combination nor was inter-connected or inter-
dependent on the Combination; and 
 
(h) did not affect the competitive landscape in any manner or affect the 
Commission’s ability to prevent the Combination from occurring. 
 
The Act does not restrict part consummation 
 
5.13 
The Act, devoid of other anti-competitive facts, does not restrict part consummation 
of a combination in any manner. Section 6(2A) of the Act only provides that “No 
combination shall come into effect”. Thus, there is no breach committed by making 
loan arrangement even assuming without admitting that it amounts to part 
consummation of the Combination given that the Combination did not came into effect 
before the expiry of timeline contained in Section 6(2A) of the Act. 
 
D. 
Analysis and Findings of the Commission 
 
6. 
The Commission has noted the submissions of the Acquirer regarding compliance of 
Section 6(2) of the Act by virtue of filing the Notice within 30 days of execution of the IA 
and regarding Section 43A of the Act empowering the Commission to impose penalty only 
in cases of failure to file notice under Section 6(2) of the Act and not for gun jumping (in 
violation of Section 6(2A) of the Act). The Acquirer is of the opinion that compliance with 
Section 6(2) of the Act only entails filing of notice relating to a combination within 30 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 8 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
days of trigger event and accordingly the obligation of the parties in this regard stands 
discharged with the filing of notice within the timeline prescribed. As regards scope of 
Section 6(2A) of the Act, the Acquirer is of the opinion that there is no penal provision for 
imposition of penalty for instances of gun jumping and the Act only envisages penalty for 
failure to file notice under Section 6(2) of the Act. 
 
7. 
The Commission is of the opinion that the submissions of the Acquirer are misplaced and 
not tenable. Gun jumping implies any action pursuant to the proposed combination which 
has the effect of consummating the combination or any part thereof without approval, 
express or implied, from the Commission. The substantive issue involved is that of the 
conduct of the parties to a combination and not only that of timing of conduct. Going by 
the arguments of the Acquirer, it would imply that parties, during the stage of negotiations, 
may enter into cooperation on any commercial/financial/marketing aspects leading to 
integration of their operations and yet claim that the conduct cannot amount to gun 
jumping, as it occurred prior to the execution of definitive agreements or filing of notice. 
Hence, what is critical in such cases is determination of the fact whether the alleged 
conduct is pursuant to the combination and has the effect of consummating a part of a 
combination and not the timing of the same. Also, if the Acquirer’s submissions on Section 
6(2) and 6(2A) of the Act that the parties to a combination are free to consummate a 
combination or any part thereof before giving notice or after giving notice but without 
waiting for the expiry of period specified under Section 6(2A) of the Act as long as notice 
is filed within the time limit prescribed under Section 6(2) of the Act were to be accepted, 
it would create anomaly and be against the principles of ex-ante review process of 
combinations.  
 
8. 
After observing that the Acquirer’s views on Section 6(2) and 6(2A) of the Act are not 
tenable, it would be appropriate to lay down the basic contours of gun-jumping which are 
consistent with the provisions of the Act. The Commission, vide its order dated 08.03.2016 
passed under Section 43A of the Act in Baxalta Incorporated C-2015-07-297, considered 
the relationship between Section 6(2) and 6(2A) of the Act and held that:  

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 9 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
“…the words “proposes” and “proposed” used in sub-section (2) of Section 6 have to be 
read in the context of sub-section (2A) of Section 6 (which suspends the consummation of 
the proposed combination for the period stated therein). Accordingly, till the expiry of the 
210 days from the date of filing of the notice or the Commission has passed an order under 
Section 31 of the Act, whichever is earlier, a combination should remain a proposed 
combination and parties to the combination should not give effect to the combination. If 
the parties to the combination are allowed to give effect to the proposed combination 
either before filing of the notice with the Commission or after filing of the notice but 
before the expiry of the period given in sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of the Act, then it 
will tantamount to violation of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act.” (emphasis added) 
 
This view has been held by the Commission in other cases as well. 
 
9. 
Further, the erstwhile Hon’ble Competition Appellate Tribunal (“CompAT”), while 
adjudicating the issue relating to ex-ante nature of notification in the case of SCM Soilfert 
Limited and Others v. Competition Commission of India, (2016) Comp. L.R. 1111 (“SCM 
Case”), observed that: 
 
“The ex-ante nature of notification under Section 6(2) is buttressed by a reading of sec. 
6(2A) which deliberately used the phrase “no combination shall come into effect” until 
210 days from date of notice, or passing of order under Sec. 31.” 
 
10. 
Based on the aforesaid observations of the Commission in the case of Baxalta Incorporated 
and of the erstwhile Hon’ble CompAT in the SCM Case, it is amply clear that a combined 
reading of the standstill obligations of the parties to a combination, as envisaged under 
Section 6(2) and 6(2A) of the Act, are considered as the cornerstone of ex-ante 
combination review process. While Section 6(2), by emphasising the words “proposes” or 
“proposed”, highlights that the parties cannot take any step towards consummation of the 
combination or any part thereof during the period leading to filing of notice, Section 6(2A) 
makes it mandatory that the parties observe standstill obligations during the review period 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 10 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
as well, as prescribed in the Act. A harmonious reading of Section 6(2) and Section 6(2A) 
brings out the continuity of standstill obligations as regards any combination transaction 
and implies that consummating the combination or any part thereof, before filing notice or 
after filing notice but before the expiry of period specified under Section 6(2A) of the Act, 
will be in contravention of Section 6(2) of the Act and violate the ex-ante nature of 
regulation of combinations in India.  
 
11. 
In this backdrop, the Commission proceeds to determine the specific issues relating to the 
present matter. 
 
12. 
The Acquirer has emphasised the fact that the IA was the valid trigger document and by 
filing notice within 30 days of execution of the IA, it has complied with the requirements 
of Section 6(2) of the Act. The Commission observes that submissions of the Acquirer in 
this regard are not relevant to the proceedings and completely misplaced. The SCN issued 
to the Acquirer does not envisage considering MOU as a trigger. The substance of the SCN 
is that the extension of corporate guarantee by the Acquirer in favour of JAL to Axis Bank 
and disbursement of loan by Axis Bank to JAL before filing of notice (regardless of what 
could have been considered as trigger document) had the effect of the Parties 
consummating a part of the Combination without the approval of the Commission 
considering that the said arrangement was pursuant to the Combination. Thus, what 
is relevant to the proceedings initiated against the Acquirer is the fact whether the said 
arrangement relating to Short Term Loan was pursuant to the Combination and not the 
determination of what constitutes a valid trigger document and timing of filing of notice. 
Accordingly, the submissions of the Acquirer in this regard are not considered as relevant 
to the present proceedings.  
 
13. 
The Commission has considered various submissions of the Acquirer that the provision of 
corporate guarantee did not lead to consummation of a part of the Combination and 
observes as under: 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 11 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
13.1. The Acquirer has pointed out that, as the arrangement in question did not occur 
between the signing of definitive documents in relation to the Combination and 
approval by the Commission, the same cannot be considered to be in violation of 
Section 6(2A) of the Act. The Commission has already dealt with the issue of ‘timing’ 
of conduct above and in view of the same, the submissions of the Acquirer in this 
regard are rejected.  
 
13.2. As regards the submissions of the Acquirer that the loan amount was repayable 
irrespective of the Combination, the Commission observes that the clause in the MOU 
whereby the Parties have agreed that the […] indicates the intent of the Parties. 
Furthermore, even if the loan amount is repayable, the same does not mitigate 
violation of the standstill obligations. The key issue is that such an arrangement may 
result in the parties to the combination not acting independently as they are required 
to do till the combination is approved by a competition authority. In the event a 
transaction is not consummated and such arrangement is restored, the competition 
would have still been harmed in the interim time period. The Commission vide its 
order dated 14.09.2016, passed in Section 43A proceedings against Hindustan Colas 
Limited (“Hindustan Colas case”), had observed that distinction between refundable 
and non-refundable payments may not be relevant from the perspective of potential 
competition distortions.  
 
13.3. The Commission also notes the submissions of the Acquirer that it has not gained any 
control over Target Assets by virtue of extension of corporate guarantee.  It may be 
noted that pre-payment of consideration is considered significant as such an 
arrangement is potentially likely to facilitate tacit collusion which is considered to be 
the worst form of collusion and therefore cannot be allowed. The Commission had 
pointed out the potential adverse effect of such arrangements in the Hindustan Colas 
Case by observing: 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 12 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
“…pre-payment of price (whether refundable/non-refundable) may have a number of 
competition distorting effects viz., (i) it may lead to a strategic advantage for the 
Acquirer; (ii) it may reduce the incentive and will of ‘target’ to compete; and (iii) it 
may become a reason/basis to access the confidential information of the ‘target’. On 
an overall basis, it may be said that pre-payment of consideration may have the impact 
of creating a tacit collusion which may cause an adverse effect on competition even 
before consummation of the combination.” 
 
13.4. In the same case, the Commission had also considered the argument that pre-payment 
of price has not resulted in any benefit or control to the acquirer and had observed that: 
“The Act mandates the Commission to examine combinations ex-ante and therefore 
the issues such as whether the parties actually benefitted or not from the impugned 
conduct or whether there were any commercial exigencies behind a particular conduct 
may not be relevant to the determination of provisions of Section 6(2) and 6(2A) of 
the Act.”  
Thus, considering the fact that such arrangements may facilitate tacit collusion and 
that there is no mechanism to ensure any safeguards in this regard, any finding on the 
aspects of actual acquisition of control/influence over the Target Assets or access to 
competitively sensitive information is not required. 
 
13.5. The Acquirer has submitted that standstill obligations contained under Section 6(2A) 
imply that the combination should not come into ‘effect’ before the expiry of timeline 
contained in the Act or the approval of the Commission. The Acquirer has interpreted 
“coming into effect” as consummation of the combination or closing of the transaction 
and left out cases of part consummation. Accordingly, the Acquirer has made 
submissions to demonstrate that the Combination did not came into ‘effect’ before the 
approval by the Commission. In this regard, it is observed that the aim of standstill 
obligations is to ensure that the parties to the combination continue to compete as they 
were competing before the proposed combination. Further, the Commission observes 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 13 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
that while there are many aspects of a combination transaction that may require 
parallel activities on the part of the parties to a combination, the objective of standstill 
obligations is to ensure that the parties remain as independent competitors as they were 
before the proposed transaction. Accordingly, all the activities/actions which may 
reduce or have the potential to reduce the degree of independence or the incentives of 
the parties to compete may be considered to be in contravention of Section 6(2A) of 
the Act. It is important to note that whether or not a particular conduct of the parties 
can be regarded as gun jumping in contravention of Section 6(2A) of the Act is a 
subject matter of examination as consummating a part of a combination may, in 
substance, have impact similar to consummation of the combination itself. In view of 
the aforesaid, the interpretation of the Acquirer as regards scope of Section 6(2A) of 
the Act is not tenable and the Commission is of the opinion that the observations 
regarding ex-ante notification requirement and standstill obligations apply both to 
consummation of a proposed combination or any part thereof. 
 
14. 
Based on the aforesaid assessment, the Commission is of the opinion that the Acquirer has 
not addressed the core issues raised in the SCN regarding the extension of corporate 
guarantee being pursuant to the Combination and in substance constituting prepayment of 
consideration leading to consummation of a part of the Combination before the approval 
of the Commission. Therefore, the Commission proceeds to examine the issues of 
extension of corporate guarantee by UltraTech being pursuant to the Combination and 
constituting pre-payment of consideration.  
 
15. 
The Commission observes the sequence of events and terms and conditions of the MOU 
and notes that the Board had approved […]. These discussions of the Board make it amply 
clear that UltraTech would not have granted this corporate guarantee had it not been for 
the sole purposes of the Combination. Similarly, examination of disbursement pattern of 
the Short Term Loan makes the fact of this arrangement being pursuant to the Combination 
more clear […]. Thus, it is clear that the extension of corporate guarantee by UltraTech 
and disbursement of “loan” by Axis Bank was connected and inextricably linked to the 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 14 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Combination, and therefore, extension of corporate guarantee by UltraTech does not seem 
to be an independent transaction but an integral part of the Combination.  
 
16. 
After observing that the extension of corporate guarantee was not in ordinary course of 
business and in fact was pursuant to the Combination, the Commission notes the terms and 
conditions agreed by the Parties in the MOU as per which, […]. This agreement brings out 
clearly that the corporate guarantee was, in substance, pre-payment of consideration. In 
this regard, the mere fact that UltraTech had not granted any advance or loan to JAL and 
arranged corporate guarantee also becomes inconsequential considering the minutes of the 
First Meeting. […]. Accordingly, the decision to use the instrument of corporate guarantee 
was a tactical decision made by management of UltraTech. 
 
17. 
Based on the examination of deliberations at the First Meeting of the Board, the timing of 
execution of Deed of Guarantee, the relevant clause in the MOU and the timing of 
disbursement of Short Term Loan by Axis Bank, the Commission is of the opinion that the 
extension of corporate guarantee of INR 500 Crores by UltraTech in favour of JAL 
amounts to pre-payment of consideration and consummating a part of the Combination 
before the approval of the same by the Commission and accordingly attracts penalty under 
Section 43A of the Act, which reads as under:  
 
“If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission under sub 
section(2) of section 6, the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a penalty 
which may extend to one percent of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, 
of such a combination.”  
 
18. 
In terms of Section 43A of the Act, the Commission can levy a maximum penalty of one 
per cent of the combined value of the worldwide turnover of the Parties. However, the 
Commission has sufficient discretion to consider the conduct of the Parties and the 
circumstances of the case to arrive at the appropriate amount of penalty. Accordingly, 
while determining the quantum of penalty, the Commission, apart from the size and scale 
of the Combination, considers the fact that the Acquirer had voluntarily filed the notice 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 15 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
with the Commission and that the Acquirer has cooperated fully with the Commission. In 
view of the foregoing, the Commission considers it appropriate to impose a nominal 
penalty of INR 10,00,000/- (INR Ten Lakhs only) on the Acquirer. 
 
19. 
The Acquirer shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of this 
order. 
 
20. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Acquirer accordingly. 
 
 
 
