 
 
 
Page 1 of 18 
 
 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
Combination Registration No. C-2025/03/1254 
8th September 2026 
 
Proceedings under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 in relation to notice filed 
under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Competition Act, 2002 by Lloyds Metals and 
Energy Limited and Others  
 
CORAM:  
Ms. Ravneet Kaur 
Chairperson 
 
Ms. Sweta Kakkad 
Member 
 
Mr. Deepak Anurag 
Member 
 
Appearances during the hearing: Mr. Samar Bansal, Senior Advocate; Ms. Atreyee Sarkar, 
Mr. Ritesh Puri, Mr. Aryan Uppal, Ms. Pranika Goel, Mr. Dilip Kumar Niranjan, Ms. Anshika 
Saxena, Advocates; and Mr. Gaurav Jangle, Senior Executive – Legal, Lloyds Metals and 
Energy Limited 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
A. 
FILING OF NOTICE AND APPROVAL OF COMBINATION 
 
1. 
On 5th March 2025, the Competition Commission of India (Commission) received a 
notice (Notice), under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Competition Act, 2002 (Act), 
jointly given by Lloyds Metals and Energy Limited (LMEL), and Thriveni 
Earthmovers and Infra Private Limited (TEIL). In response to a communication issued 
under Regulation 14 of the Competition Commission of India (Combinations) 
Regulations, 2024 (Combination Regulations), Prakar Estates and Promoters LLP, 
Naaval Prakar Farms LLP, Aeon Trading LLP, Lloyds Enterprises Limited, 
Mahaprabhu Ventures Private Limited, and Indrani Patnaik (collectively, ‘Additional 

 
       
 
 
Page 2 of 18 
 
Investors’) also became notifying parties to the Notice. The Notice was given pursuant 
to execution of the Share Subscription Agreement entered amongst LMEL, Additional 
Investors, and TEIL on 17th February 2025 (SSA); and the Demerger Scheme filed with 
the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Chennai on 9th October 2024 
(Demerger Scheme). 
 
2. 
The Combination as notified to the Commission envisaged the following: 
- 
Subscription to the shares of TEIL: LMEL will subscribe to certain equity shares, 
representing 79.82% of the total issued, subscribed and paid-up equity share capital 
of TEIL. Further, the remaining equity shares, representing 20.18% of the total, 
issued, subscribed and paid-up equity share capital of TEIL shall be held by 
Additional Investors;  
- 
Merger of MDO Business: The mining development and operations (MDO) 
business (MDO Business) of Thriveni Earthmovers Private Limited (TEMPL) will 
be demerged from TEMPL to TEIL. As consideration for the demerger, TEIL will 
issue fully paid-up 9.5% non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable preference 
shares (RPS) to the shareholders of TEMPL (TEMPL Shareholders); and 
- 
Acquisition of Lloyds Surya: TEIL will acquire 99.83% shareholding in Lloyds 
Surya Private Limited (Lloyds Surya).  
 
3. 
The Commission in its meeting held on 13th May 2025 approved the Combination under 
Section 31(1) of the Act. 
 
B. 
SUBJECT MATTER OF SECTION 43A PROCEEDINGS, ISSUE OF SHOW 
CAUSE NOTICE AND FILING OF RESPONSE THEREOF BY LMEL 
 
4. 
During the course of review of the Combination, the Commission had noted that it has 
been agreed that until completion of the demerger of the MDO Business and issuance 
of RPS to shareholders of TEMPL, LMEL would issue guarantee of upto INR 2,500 
crore of principal amount (and any returns for the same) to any party from which 
TEMPL Shareholders directly or through their controlled entity may seek borrowing, 
subject to a counter-guarantee being provided by TEMPL. In this regard, following 
observations were made:  

 
       
 
 
Page 3 of 18 
 
 
• LMEL, as a corporate guarantor, entered into a deed of corporate guarantee on 
12th March 2025 in favour of Catalyst Trusteeship Limited for a principal 
amount of INR 1,745 crore (Corporate Guarantee). 
• The Corporate Guarantee is provided in relation to the proposed issuance of 
senior, secured, redeemable non-convertible debentures (Debentures) by 
Mahaprabhu Projects Private Limited (MPPL), a company controlled by Mr. 
Prabhakaran Sooryanarayanan (a TEMPL Promoter).  
• Further, a counter-guarantee dated 12th March 2025 (Counter Guarantee) is 
issued by TEMPL in favour of LMEL for an equal amount of the Corporate 
Guarantee given by LMEL to Catalyst Trusteeship Limited. As submitted, the 
Counter Guarantee will be withdrawn upon receiving the approval of the 
Commission and National Company Law Tribunal, Chennai and issuance of the 
RPS by TEIL to the TEMPL Shareholders. 
• The Debentures were issued by MPPL to certain institutional investors in due 
course. 
 
5. 
As regards the Corporate Guarantee, the Commission observed that Section 6(2A) of 
the Act provides that no combination shall come into effect until one hundred and fifty 
days had passed from the day on which the notice was given to the Commission under 
Section 6(2) of the Act or the Commission has issued any order under Section 31 of the 
Act, whichever is earlier. When LMEL issued the Corporate Guarantee as well as when 
the Debentures were issued neither one hundred and fifty days had passed from the day 
on which the Notice was given to the Commission, nor the Commission had passed any 
order under Section 31 of the Act.  
 
6. 
In view of the above, the Commission formed a prima facie opinion that LMEL has 
contravened Section 6(2A) of the Act. Accordingly, the Commission, vide Order dated 
13th May 2025 (SCN), directed LMEL, under Regulation 49 of the Competition 
Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2024, to show cause in writing within 15 
days of receipt of the SCN, as to why it should not be held in contravention of the 
provisions of Section 6(2A) of the Act for giving effect to a part of the Combination by 
providing Corporate Guarantee before expiry of the standstill obligation prescribed 

 
       
 
 
Page 4 of 18 
 
under Section 6(2A) of the Act, and penalty not be imposed on it under Section 43A of 
the Act. The SCN was communicated to LMEL on 26th May 2025. LMEL submitted 
the response to SCN on 8th July 2025 after seeking extension of time (Response). Along 
with the Response, LMEL also requested for an oral hearing in the matter. The 
Commission heard LMEL at length on 18th August 2026 (Oral Hearing). Further, 
LMEL also made additional written submissions dated 21st August 2026 (Additional 
Submissions).  
 
C. 
SUBMISSIONS OF LMEL 
 
7. 
LMEL has submitted that by issuing the Corporate Guarantee (and the subsequent 
issuance of the Debentures), it has not given effect to any part of the Combination and 
is therefore not in violation of Section 6(2A) of the Act. The key submissions made by 
LMEL as a part of the Response, Oral Hearing and Additional Submissions are set out 
below. 
 
I. 
Matter of commercial necessity   
 
8. 
The consideration for the demerger of the MDO Business from TEMPL into TEIL is 
the RPS to be issued by TEIL to the shareholders of TEMPL, which are redeemable 
after six (6) years from the date of issuance. As a result, payment to TEMPL for the 
transfer of the MDO Business is not immediate but rather deferred for six (6) years. 
Given the deferred payment mechanism, it was important to provide security or 
assurance that TEIL would actually pay the consideration when it becomes due in six 
(6) years to TEMPL Promoters and / or their external lenders. Therefore, by issuing the 
Corporate Guarantee, LMEL (which will hold 79.82% shareholding in TEIL), as 
TEIL’s parent post the Combination, had agreed to provide the promoters of TEMPL 
(TEMPL Promoters) with the requisite degree of comfort that its subsidiary will pay 
the deferred consideration. Accordingly, as submitted, the provision of the Corporate 
Guarantee and the issuance of the Debentures were only a form of credit-support 
measures to secure the deferred element of consideration for the MDO Business (i.e., 
the RPS proposed to be issued by TEIL).  
 

 
       
 
 
Page 5 of 18 
 
9. 
The second set of arguments in support of the Corporate Guarantee as a matter of 
commercial necessity hinge on the valuation. As submitted: 
• The provision of the Corporate Guarantee and the issuance of the Debentures 
was highly time sensitive and commercially necessary given the following 
factors— (i) The shareholders of LMEL, a listed company where 36.53% equity 
shares are held by public shareholders (as on 31st March 2025), had already 
given their approval for all the necessary steps of the Combination; and (ii) The 
appointed date of the acquisition of the MDO Business by TEIL was fixed as 1st 
April 2025. This appointed date was significant because it served as the 
reference point for the transfer of the MDO Business for accounting purposes. 
• As such, it was imperative that the Corporate Guarantee be provided by LMEL 
and the Debentures be issued by MPPL before the close of FY 2024-25 (i.e., by 
31st March 2025) to align with the agreed timeline and to ensure that the value 
of the Combination is captured extant as at that date, as approved by the 
shareholders of LMEL. This is an important aspect because the value of a 
business / undertaking can fluctuate due to various factors, such as market 
conditions, operational performance, or regulatory changes. 
• By finalising the Corporate Guarantee and Debentures’ issuance before the 
close of the financial year, the parties could ensure that the valuation used for 
the Combination accurately reflected the business's status as on 31st March 
2025. As businesses continue to develop and perform well, their overall worth 
(or enterprise value) rises. Accordingly, if the provision of the Corporate 
Guarantee and / or the issuance of the Debentures had been delayed until the 
commencement of the following financial year, the value of the MDO Business 
would likely increase because of its ongoing growth and expansion activities. 
 
II. 
Conditional and transient nature of Corporate Guarantee as a safeguard 
 
10. 
As submitted, to ensure compliance with standstill obligations, the arrangements are 
typically structured with appropriate safeguards. In this case, the Counter Guarantee 
acts as a safeguard. Therefore, while the provision of the Corporate Guarantee and the 
issuance of the Debentures were necessary terms of the Combination to ensure 

 
       
 
 
Page 6 of 18 
 
alignment between the parties’ commercial expectations, the reciprocal Counter 
Guarantee effectually negated any potential risk or liability for LMEL. 
 
11. 
As regards how the Counter Guarantee is an effective safeguard, it has been submitted 
that: 
• The Counter Guarantee provided by TEMPL was for an equal amount as the 
Corporate Guarantee, and it could be triggered immediately and automatically 
if there was any attempt to enforce the Corporate Guarantee before the necessary 
regulatory approvals were obtained. In substance, therefore, if any potential 
liability or obligation had arisen for LMEL to discharge under the Corporate 
Guarantee before the required regulatory approvals were obtained, it would 
have been immediately offset by the Counter Guarantee. 
• Even with the Debentures’ proceeds having been received, the arrangement was 
fully reversible and contingent on regulatory approvals, with the Counter 
Guarantee neutralising any risk to LMEL. As such, LMEL did not assume any 
financial risk by way of the Corporate Guarantee given the arrangement was 
temporary and reversible in nature due to the Counter Guarantee from TEMPL. 
 
Basis the aforesaid, it has been submitted that the arrangement was designed to be fully 
reversible and contingent on regulatory approvals, preventing any effective pre-
payment of consideration or conferment of control. 
 
12. 
LMEL submitted that the parties were guided by the extant decisional practice of the 
Commission to the effect that a standalone guarantee without any safeguard would not 
be 
compliant 
with 
the 
law 
as 
held 
in 
UltraTech 
Cement 
Limited 
(UltraTech)/Jaiprakash Associates Limited (JAL)1. LMEL submitted that in UltraTech 
/ JAL, the Commission held that the corporate guarantee extended by UltraTech to Axis 
Bank Limited on behalf of JAL (the seller) was in substance pre-payment of 
consideration and while arriving at this conclusion, the Commission noted that no 
safeguards were in place to prevent the competition-distorting effects of the corporate 
guarantee. Further, in UltraTech / JAL, the guarantee directly funded the acquisition 
 
1 UltraTech / JAL, Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246, order under Section 43A of the Competition 
Act dated 12 March 2018 

 
       
 
 
Page 7 of 18 
 
price for the target’s benefit. Here, MPPL and TEIL (the target) are separate entities 
(albeit MPPL being controlled by a TEMPL Promoter), and the debenture proceeds 
received by MPPL were not consideration for the Combination. Accordingly, it has 
been submitted that as such, holding LMEL guilty of violating the Act would be 
tantamount to rewriting the section itself as the standstill obligation applies to the 
Proposed Combination (between LMEL and TEIL) and not to independent transactions 
by related party companies (in the present case, MPPL). 
 
13. 
With a view to emphasise the safeguard element in the Corporate Guarantee, LMEL 
submitted that the parties contemplated two options to provide the necessary comfort 
to the TEMPL Promoters — (i) A guarantee for a principal amount of INR 2,500 crore 
to be provided by LMEL to the TEMPL Promoters to secure the redemption of the RPS; 
or (ii) A guarantee for a principal amount of INR 2,500 crore to be provided by LMEL 
to an external lender of the TEMPL Promoters or any other company controlled by the 
TEMPL Promoters, to be backed by a counter guarantee of an equal amount to be 
provided by TEMPL to LMEL. As submitted, the parties consciously implemented 
option (ii), which provided for the Counter Guarantee, in order to comply with Section 
6(2A) of the Competition Act. The Counter Guarantee operated as a safeguard against 
premature implementation of the Proposed Combination during the standstill period. 
The fact that the Counter Guarantee would be released upon the receipt of regulatory 
approvals and issuance of RPS, demonstrates that the parties implemented the 
arrangement to ensure compliance with Section 6(2A) of the Act. 
 
III. 
No violation of standstill obligations for mere preparatory steps 
 
14. 
The legal standard for triggering a violation of Section 43A of the Act is the actual 
implementation or transfer of control prior to receipt of the Commission’s approval. It 
is well established that undertaking merely preparatory or contingent steps do not 
constitute as implementation of a combination unless they result in the actual exercise 
of control or integration of businesses. 
 
 

 
       
 
 
Page 8 of 18 
 
IV. 
Absence of premature change in control 
 
15. 
A guarantee, counter-guarantee or debenture arrangement, by its very nature, is a credit 
support mechanism. It does not, in itself, confer any rights to participate in, veto, or 
otherwise influence the management or strategic commercial decisions of any entity. 
Unless the guarantee / debentures are accompanied by specific contractual rights that 
allow the guarantor to intervene in the affairs of the enterprise (for example, through 
board representation, veto rights on budgets, business plans, or key appointments), the 
mere existence of a guarantee does not amount to de jure control. 
 
16. 
In the present case, there is no evidence that the back-to-back guarantee arrangement 
comprising the Corporate Guarantee and the Counter Guarantee or the Debentures are 
accompanied by any such rights. The arrangement does not provide LMEL with any 
legal entitlement to participate in or influence the management or policy decisions of 
MPPL (the entity to whom the Corporate Guarantee was given) or any other entity 
controlled by the TEMPL Promoters. Therefore, the arrangement does not result in de 
jure control. 
 
17. 
Further, as submitted, the parties have maintained status quo in terms of their 
management and operations and have not exercised any form of control, and continue 
to operate independently pending regulatory approvals. There have been no changes in 
the ownership pattern, or conferment of any rights of management, control, or economic 
benefit to any of the parties before receipt of the Commission’s approval. Therefore, 
there is no indication that LMEL or any other entity is, in fact, using the Corporate 
Guarantee arrangement or the Debentures’ issuance to direct or influence the affairs of 
MPPL / any other entity. Accordingly, there is no change in de facto control of any of 
the parties. The existing management of the relevant entities continue to exercise 
control as before. 
 
18. 
LMEL is part of the Lloyds Group, while the Thriveni Group, to which TEMPL 
belongs, also holds a substantial (approximately 32%) shareholding in LMEL. 
Furthermore, LMEL and Lloyds Surya are both part of the Lloyds Group, and following 
Step 1 of the Combination, TEIL (which is currently a part of the Thriveni Group) will 

 
       
 
 
Page 9 of 18 
 
become a subsidiary of LMEL and thus also part of the Lloyds Group. Given the 
existing relationships, the entities were already subject to significant inter-linkages and 
common interests through cross shareholdings. As such, the provision of the Corporate 
Guarantee and the issuance of the Debentures did not alter the degree of independence 
or the incentives of the parties to compete or act autonomously. The Parties’ incentives 
and ability to act independently were already influenced by these structural connections, 
and the relevant arrangements did not introduce any new alignment of incentives or 
reduction in competitive independence. 
 
19. 
Accordingly, the provision of the Corporate Guarantee and the issuance of the 
Debentures could not possibly have had any impact on the Parties’ independence or 
their conduct in their respective markets in any manner. Therefore, there has been no 
change in the status quo, and the parties remain entirely independent, with no impact 
on competition or market structure. 
 
20. 
Such a contingent arrangement, which did not result in any change of control over any 
enterprise or asset and did not confer any rights or benefits to any of the concerned 
parties, cannot be viewed as amounting to “giving effect” to the Combination under 
Section 6(2A) of the Competition Act. 
 
V. 
Other Submissions 
 
21. 
This arrangement enabled the Thriveni Group to secure legitimate business funding, 
thereby supporting ongoing operational efficiency. However, it is important to note that 
for the TEMPL Promoters, LMEL’s role in obtaining the funding was primarily 
administrative. The guarantee to secure external borrowing could, in principle, have 
been provided by any other group company of the TEMPL Promoters. In fact, 
considering that the amount of the guarantee was not significant relative to the overall 
valuation of TEMPL, TEMPL could have directly provided a guarantee to the 
Debenture-holders. LMEL’s role was not unique or indispensable in this context, but 
rather a matter of business convenience and group structure. 
 

 
       
 
 
Page 10 of 18 
 
22. 
As regards the issuance of the Debentures by MPPL, it has been stated that it was a 
necessary and independent financial transaction, undertaken to ensure that the TEMPL 
Promoters could meet their financial obligations and maintain business continuity 
during the interim period pending completion of the demerger and the subsequent 
issuance of RPS by TEIL. Thus, it has been stated that the issuance of the Debentures 
was, therefore, a standalone financial arrangement, distinct from the implementation of 
the Combination.  
 
23. 
Further submissions have been made on the Corporate Guarantee and Counter 
Guarantee arrangement satisfying the inherence-proportionality test and that the same 
does not amount to pre-payment of consideration. As submitted,  
• The actual consideration for the demerger of MDO Business is the issuance of 
RPS by TEIL in favour of shareholders of TEMPL and the same was explicitly 
reserved to occur only after all regulatory approvals have been received. 
• Further, the proceeds of the Debentures received by MPPL were not 
consideration for the Combination, but merely an independent financial 
arrangement, fully risk mitigated by the Counter Guarantee. At all times, the 
entities remained independent and there was no change or alignment in 
economic incentives. 
• There is a clear temporal and procedural separation between the provision of 
the Corporate Guarantee and the issuance of the Debentures (which is an 
ancillary step to provide comfort to the TEMPL Promoters), and the 
consummation of the Combination. All steps relating to the actual transfer of 
value or control were contractually and practically deferred until after receipt of 
all regulatory approvals. As such, the economic effects of the Combination 
remained notional until regulatory approval was received. 
 
24. 
The Corporate Guarantee is inherent to the Proposed Combination as a means of 
securing the deferred consideration (as RPS are payable after 6 years) and locking the 
transaction value to prevent renegotiation or withdrawal by promoters of TEMPL. The 
arrangement is proportionate because it is fully safeguarded by the Counter Guarantee 
(which is of an equal amount, immediately and automatically enforceable), ensuring no 

 
       
 
 
Page 11 of 18 
 
premature implementation of the Combination or alteration of the competitive 
landscape. 
 
VI. 
Mitigating factors 
 
25. 
LMEL has submitted that in the event that the Commission finds a violation, it is 
submitted that no / only a nominal penalty should be imposed in this case, based on the 
various mitigating circumstances viz., cooperation of LMEL demonstrating 
transparency and proactiveness, no prior findings of contravention against LMEL, no 
malafide intention to evade compliance of the provisions of the Act, lack of appreciable 
adverse effect on competition etc.   
 
D. 
Observations and Findings of the Commission  
 
26. 
The Commission observed that considering the submissions of LMEL, it is clear that 
the parties were well aware of the standstill obligations contained under Section 6(2A) 
of the Act and accordingly actively deliberated on the structuring of the arrangement so 
as to meet their commercial necessities and comply with the standstill obligations. Thus, 
the only issue for determination is whether the provision of Corporate Guarantee and 
Counter Guarantee can be considered as inherent and proportionate to the commercial 
objectives of the parties and consistent with the standstill obligations.  
 
27. 
The first submission made by LMEL justifying its issuance of Corporate Guarantee in 
relation to the Debentures proposed to be issued by MPPL is rooted in the fact that 
payment to TEMPL for the transfer of the MDO Business as a part of the Combination 
is not immediate but rather deferred for six (6) years. Accordingly, it has been stated 
that it was important to provide security or assurance that TEIL would actually pay the 
consideration when it becomes due in six (6) years to TEMPL Promoters and/or their 
external lenders.  
 
28. 
The Commission observed that while it may be considered inherent for the parties to 
provide corporate guarantees in transactions involving deferred consideration from the 
security or assurance of payment perspective, there are two (2) key elements which 

 
       
 
 
Page 12 of 18 
 
indicate that Corporate Guarantee was neither inherent nor proportionate to this 
objective.  
 
29. 
The first element is the timing of Corporate Guarantee coming into effect. While the 
general practice is to settle payment on closing (if there is no deferred payment 
envisaged), the Corporate Guarantee came into effect even before closing of the 
Combination. Thus, settlement/payment of consideration in all transactions remain 
‘deferred’ during the period from signing of transaction documents to closing of the 
transaction. Accordingly, the question of providing ‘security’ or ‘assurance’ to the 
sellers ordinarily arises on closing in cases where the consideration is discharged in a 
form where the payment settlement gets deferred. Thus, while any such arrangement to 
provide ‘security’ for deferred consideration which comes into effect on closing of a 
transaction and covers the period over which settlement remains pending may be 
considered as inherent to the commercial objectives of the parties involved, the 
arrangement in the nature of Corporate Guarantee which was implemented even before 
closing of the Combination cannot be considered as inherent to the objective of 
provision of ‘security’ or ‘assurance’ for deferred consideration.  
 
30. 
The second element is timing of issue of Debentures. LMEL has submitted that “it was 
important to provide security or assurance that TEIL would actually pay the 
consideration when it becomes due in 6 years…”. However, for all practical purposes, 
the arrangement of Corporate Guarantee has allowed the TEMPL Promoters to gain 
funds even before closing and effectively their consideration did not remain ‘deferred’ 
to the extent of issuance of Debentures at all.  Thus, the arrangement is not 
proportionate to the stated objective of LMEL which is limited to provision of security 
or assurance that TEIL would actually pay the consideration when it becomes due in 
six (6) years.  
 
31. 
The Commission also observed that in order to emphasise the inherence and 
proportionality of Corporate Guarantee, LMEL has expanded the objective “to provide 
security or assurance that TEIL would actually pay the consideration when it becomes 
due in 6 years to TEMPL Promoters and / or their external lenders”. The reference to 
‘external lenders’ appears to be an afterthought and is not tenable. If including the 

 
       
 
 
Page 13 of 18 
 
assurance towards external lenders also was the original objective, it would mean and 
imply that the Corporate Guarantee and issuance of Debentures were always envisaged 
to allow the flow of funds to TEMPL Promoters immediately while LMEL discharges 
its payment obligation after six (6) years which implies that the arrangement was always 
designed to function as a transfer of consideration.  
 
32. 
The Commission noted that in order to emphasise the Corporate Guarantee as a 
commercial necessity, LMEL has made submissions on its role in locking the valuation 
of MDO Business. Some points made by LMEL are noteworthy and reproduced 
hereunder: 
 
i. 
“The appointed date of the acquisition of the MDO Business by TEIL was fixed as 
1st April 2025”. 
ii. 
“The primary purpose of LMEL providing the Corporate Guarantee (conditional 
upon the Counter Guarantee, effective until the necessary regulatory approvals 
were obtained) was to lock in the value of the Combination…”. 
iii. 
“By finalising the Corporate Guarantee and Debentures’ issuance before the close 
of the financial year, the Parties could ensure that the valuation used for the 
Combination accurately reflected the business's status as at 31st March 2025”. 
 
33. 
The Commission observed that while LMEL has made the above points to stress 
commercial necessity of the arrangement, it also brings out the fact that settling the 
consideration immediately was critical to the parties and because the same was 
envisaged to be settled by issuance of RPS, an arrangement which de facto allows the 
sellers of MDO Business to gain immediate funds in lieu of agreed valuation and sale 
of MDO Business was worked out. Thus, in effect, what the Corporate Guarantee 
framework has achieved is that the sellers got a part of consideration and LMEL locked 
the valuation and terms of merger of MDO Business with TEIL. Importantly, this is 
substantively the effect of payment or discharge of consideration and thus, it appears 
that the Corporate Guarantee framework was always intended and has in effect 
functioned as a mechanism for prepayment of consideration.  
 

 
       
 
 
Page 14 of 18 
 
34. 
Notwithstanding the aforesaid observations which clearly suggest that the Corporate 
Guarantee framework was neither inherent nor proportionate to the objectives of 
providing security for the deferred consideration to the TEMPL Promoters and locking 
valuation of MDO Business for LMEL, and the Corporate Guarantee framework is in 
fact a mechanism for prepayment of consideration, the Commission considered the 
submissions of LMEL on the efficacy of Counter Guarantee as a safeguard which 
allows to ensure alignment between the Parties’ commercial expectations while 
effectually negating any potential risk or liability for LMEL and prevent premature 
implementation of the Combination or alteration of the competitive landscape. 
 
35. 
In this regard, firstly, it may be noted that the key concern behind standstill obligations 
is the risk of competition distortions and not the financial risk of the parties to a 
combination. The Commission has noted in its decisional practice that arrangements 
which allow for prepayment of consideration may result in the parties to the 
combination not acting independently as they are required to do till the combination is 
approved by a competition authority and in the event a transaction is not consummated 
and such arrangement is restored, the competition remains harmed in the interim time 
period. The Commission in its decisional practice relating to instance of prepayment of 
consideration has observed that pre-payment of consideration is considered significant 
as such an arrangement is potentially likely to facilitate tacit collusion which is 
considered to be the worst form of collusion and therefore cannot be allowed. The 
sources of harm have been identified as acquirer gaining a strategic advantage over the 
target, reduction in incentive or will of the target to compete etc. Thus, any stated 
‘safeguard’ is required to be assessed on these parameters. 
 
36. 
Accordingly, the aspects of the Counter Guarantee neutralising any risk to LMEL or 
LMEL not assuming any financial risk by way of the Corporate Guarantee are 
inconsequential to assessment of contravention of standstill obligations. In terms of 
how the arrangement will safeguard the premature implementation of the transaction, 
no submissions other than reversibility and neutralising of LMEL financial risk have 
been made. The only submission made on the aspect of competition distortions (or lack 
thereof) is rooted in the existing relationships between Lloyds and Thriveni Groups. As 
submitted, the entities involved were already subject to significant inter-linkages and 

 
       
 
 
Page 15 of 18 
 
common interests through significant cross shareholdings and as such, the parties’ 
incentives and ability to act independently were already influenced by these structural 
connections, and the relevant arrangements did not introduce any new alignment of 
incentives or reduction in competitive independence. 
 
37. 
In this regard, the Commission noted that the common and cross shareholdings do not 
mean and imply an inference of a single economic entity with common incentives. 
Control is a matter of degree and a change in degree of control is also of relevance as 
the instance of acquisition of control/influence. The entities at the core of the impugned 
framework are independent and must be driven by their own strategic imperatives and 
as such it does not appear tenable to say that the newer transactions between entities 
having structural/financial linkages do not cause any change in their intent or 
competition dynamics or that standstill obligations do not apply to such transactions. 
 
38. 
The Commission further considered the submissions of LMEL on the back-to-back 
guarantee arrangement comprising the Corporate Guarantee and the Counter Guarantee 
being a novel structure and consequently the situation being distinct from 
Ultratech/JAL. In Ultratech/JAL, the Commission had noted that loan amount was 
repayable irrespective of the combination. However, the Commission had considered 
the intent of the parties in that case to decide if the arrangement was in fact a prepayment 
of consideration. Moreover, it was also noted that even if the loan amount is repayable, 
the same does not mitigate violation of the standstill obligations. The key issue is that 
such an arrangement may result in the parties to the combination not acting 
independently as they are required to do till the combination is approved by a 
competition authority. In the event a transaction is not consummated and such 
arrangement is restored, the competition would have still been harmed in the interim 
time period. The yardstick as applied in Ultratech/JAL is also applicable to the present 
case. As examined above, regardless of the form of instrument and the procedure 
followed, the key aspect is that the acquirer shall not prepay the consideration as it 
entails the possible competition distortion effects. The safeguards if any need to be 
efficacious to prevent such possible competition distortions and mere reversibility of 
payments is not sufficient. The Commission’s analysis has revealed that the framework 
of Corporate Guarantee was intended and effectively functioned as a means of 

 
       
 
 
Page 16 of 18 
 
prepayment of consideration. With the Corporate Guarantee been found to be an 
effective instrument of prepayment of consideration, the other issues raised by LMEL 
with an intent of making a distinction from UltraTech / JAL, viz., in Ultratech/JAL, the 
guarantee directly funded the acquisition price for the target’s benefit while here, MPPL 
and TEIL (the target) are separate entities (albeit MPPL being controlled by a TEMPL 
Promoter) and the standstill obligations not applicable to independent transactions by 
related party companies (in the present case, MPPL) are internally inconsistent with 
LMEL submissions and inconsequential to assessment. On one hand, LMEL argued for 
significant cross shareholdings between the Lloyds and Thriveni Groups as a factor to 
suggest no change in competition landscape, on the other hand, it is arguing for MPPL 
to be an independent company. The key is that the arrangement was pursuant to the 
Combination and it was structured that LMEL would issue Corporate Guarantee in 
favour of debentures to be issued by MPPL and the Counter Guarantee would be given 
by TEMPL. 
 
39. 
As regards the submissions on the arrangement being akin to preparatory steps, the 
Commission finds the same untenable considering the effect of Corporate Guarantee 
and issuance of Debentures is substantive in effect and has led to prepayment of 
consideration. 
 
40. 
LMEL has also argued on lack of any premature change in control. The submissions 
are not relevant as it has never been alleged that LMEL has acquired control over the 
MDO Business. The Commission in its decisional practice has maintained that while 
there are many aspects of a combination that may require parallel activities on the part 
of the parties to a combination, the objective of standstill obligations is to ensure that 
the parties remain as independent competitors as they were before the proposed 
transaction. Accordingly, all the activities/actions which may reduce or have the 
potential to reduce the degree of independence or the incentives of the parties to 
compete may be considered to be in contravention of Section 6(2A) of the Act. It is 
important to note that whether or not a particular conduct of the parties can be regarded 
as gun jumping in contravention of Section 6(2A) of the Act is a subject matter of 
examination as consummating a part of a combination may, in substance, have impact 

 
       
 
 
Page 17 of 18 
 
similar to consummation of the combination itself. The Corporate Guarantee 
framework has been assessed accordingly.  
 
41. 
The Commission observed that LMEL has also submitted on its role being 
administrative and that the guarantee to secure external borrowing could, in principle, 
have been provided by any other group company of the TEMPL Promoters. It has also 
been stated that considering that the amount of the guarantee was not significant relative 
to the overall valuation of TEMPL, TEMPL could have directly provided a guarantee 
to the Debenture-holders. While LMEL has submitted that its role was not unique or 
indispensable in this context, but rather a matter of business convenience and group 
structure, the Commission observed that firstly the issue is irrelevant and secondly 
LMEL’s role in the arrangement is central. Pursuant to the Combination, LMEL’s 
shareholding in TEIL is increasing to ~79% and MDO Business is to merge with TEIL 
and accordingly the consideration was supposed to move from LMEL and in that 
backdrop the fact that LMEL provided the Corporate Guarantee indicates the actual role 
of LMEL.  
 
42. 
On the basis of the aforesaid, the Commission is of the opinion that the Corporate 
Guarantee framework and issuance of Debentures by MPPL have had the effect of 
contravention of standstill obligations contained under Section 6(2A) of the Act and by 
agreeing and implementing the framework, LMEL has contravened the provisions of 
Section 6(2A) of the Act and is liable to penalty under Section 43A of the Act. Section 
43A of the Act provides that if any person or enterprise contravenes Section 6(2A) of 
the Act, the Commission may impose on such person or enterprise, a penalty which 
may extend to one per cent of the total turnover or assets or the value of transaction 
referred to in clause (d) of section 5, whichever is higher, of such a combination. Thus, 
Section 43A of the Act empowers the Commission to determine the appropriate amount 
of penalty in a matter, subject to the maximum of 1% of the total turnover or the assets, 
or the value of transaction, whichever is higher. 
 
43. 
Considering the facts and circumstances of the instant matter and the conduct of LMEL 
during the proceedings, the Commission considers it appropriate to impose a penalty of 

 
       
 
 
Page 18 of 18 
 
INR 15,00,000 (INR Fifteen Lakh Only) on LMEL. LMEL is directed to pay the penalty 
within 60 days from the date of receipt of this order. 
 
44. 
It is made clear that nothing used in this order shall be deemed to be confidential or 
deemed to have been granted confidentiality, as the same has been used for the purposes 
of the Act in terms of the provisions contained in Section 57 thereof. 
 
45. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to LMEL accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
 
