 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/12/349                                                                                                                                Page 1 of 15 
 
PUBLIC  
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No.C-2015/12/349) 
13.01.2017 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 (“Act”) in relation to 
combination registration no. C-2015/12/349 
 
Background 
 
1. 
On 16.09.2015, the Competition Commission of India (“Commission”) received a notice 
under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act filed by Schulke India Private Limited 
(“Schulke 
India”), 
a 
subsidiary 
of 
Schulke 
& 
Mayr 
GmbH 
(“Schulke 
Germany/Acquirer”)1, seeking Commission’s approval of its acquisition of the Healthcare 
Antisepsis Solutions (“HAS”) business of Johnson & Johnson Private Limited (“JJPL”), a 
wholly owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, USA (“J&J”). This notice (bearing 
combination registration no. C-2015/08/310) was filed pursuant to the execution of a Country 
Transfer Agreement between JJPL and Schulke India on 11.09.2015 (“CTA”).  
 
2. 
It was stated in the notice that on 25.03.2015, Schulke Germany had entered into a Global 
Asset Purchase Agreement (“Global APA”) for acquisition of the Advanced Sterilization 
Products (“ASP”) Division of Ethicon, Inc. (“Ethicon”), a wholly owned subsidiary of J&J. 
The Global APA provides for the global acquisition of the HAS business of Ethicon by 
Schulke Germany, in the territories of Australia, Japan, India, New Zealand and certain other 
jurisdictions. 
 
3. 
The Commission, in its meeting held on 10.11.2015, inter alia, observed that information 
regarding global acquisition of Ethicon’s HAS business by Schulke Germany was not 
provided in the notice. On account of lack of information on Air Liquide Group and ASP 
Division of Ethicon, their role and objectives in the combination, details of their business 
activities, globally and in India, could not be assessed. Further, the notice did not meet the 
requirements of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 9 of the Competition Commission of India 
(Procedure in regard to the transaction of business relating to combinations) Regulations, 
                                                          
1 Schulke Germany is stated to be a wholly owned subsidiary of Air Liquide Deutschland GmbH and is a 
part of the Air Liquide group of companies (Air Liquid Group).  
 

 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/12/349                                                                                                                    Page 2 of 15 
 
PUBLIC 
2011 (“Combination Regulations”), as the same was filed by incorrect party i.e. Schulke 
India and not Schulke Germany, being the acquirer as per the Global APA.  
 
4. 
Accordingly, in its above said meeting, the Commission was of the view that the Global APA 
is the binding document for the purposes of the present combination and that Schulke 
Germany ought to have filed a notice for the global acquisition of the HAS business of 
Ethicon with the Commission within 30 days of the execution of the Global APA i.e. by 
24.04.2015. The Commission therefore,  
 
a.) decided that the notice filed by Schulke India is not in conformity with the 
Combination Regulations and therefore, not valid in terms of sub-regulation (1) and 
sub-regulation (2A) of Regulation 14 of the Combination Regulations; and 
 
b.) directed Schulke Germany to file a fresh notice, under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 of the Act read with sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 9 of the Combination 
Regulations, in respect of its acquisition of HAS business in India from JJPL.  
 
5. 
Pursuant to the directions of the Commission, Schulke Germany filed the notice (bearing 
combination case Registration No. C-2015/12/349) on 07.12.2015, in respect of its global 
acquisition of the HAS business of Ethicon (“Combination”). The Commission, in its 
meeting held on 15.01.2016, considered the Combination and approved the same under sub-
section (1) of Section 31 of the Act. This order, however, was issued without prejudice to any 
proceedings under Section 43A of the Act. 
 
Proceedings under Section 43A of the Act 
 
6. 
In view of the facts and circumstances of the case, as mentioned above, the Commission, in 
the meeting held on 15.01.2016, also decided to initiate proceedings under Section 43A of the 
Act. Accordingly, on 11.02.2016, a show cause notice was issued to the Acquirer, under 
Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India 
(General) Regulations, 2009, as to why penalty should not be imposed under Section 43A of 
the Act on them, for violation of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act (“SCN”), to which 
the Acquirer filed its response on 26.02.2016 (“Response to SCN”). 
 
7. 
The Commission, in its meeting held on 09.08.2016, considered the Response to SCN and 
decided to grant an opportunity of oral hearing to Schulke Germany, as requested. The 

 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/12/349                                                                                                                    Page 3 of 15 
 
PUBLIC 
authorized representative of Schulke Germany was heard on 30.08.2016. Schulke Germany 
also made certain written submissions on 01.09.2016. The Commission noted that vide its 
written and oral submissions, Schulke Germany made, inter alia, following submissions: 
 
7.1 
That the CTA is the relevant transaction agreement for the purpose of sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 of the Act and sub-regulation (8) of Regulation 5 of the Combinations 
Regulation as: (i) the Global APA did not cause the Indian assets to be transferred; (ii) 
the precise and final scope of the assets transfer in India was defined in the CTA; and (iii) 
the CTA is not an amendment to the Global APA and is a separate agreement between 
different legal entities. In this regard, it has also been submitted that:  
 
7.1.1 
the Global APA is a global framework agreement signed by Schulke Germany and 
Ethicon that formed the basis for them to negotiate the terms of the asset transfer 
agreement. As the signing parties of the Global APA are not the legal owners of the 
assets forming the subject matter of the combination in India, the CTA is the 
document binding on the Parties that causes the transfer of the Indian assets ("India 
Transferred Assets"). The India Transferred Assets are the property of JJPL, an 
Indian company that is not a party to the Global APA. Therefore, the Global APA by 
itself would not cause a transfer of the Indian assets. 
 
7.1.2 
the Global APA provides that separate agreements and instruments of transfer are 
required to transfer the HAS Business in each individual country. The Global APA 
was at best, an in-principle agreement, to agree and was not a binding document; the 
CTA was the binding document that triggered the filing with the Commission. 
Further, it is not unusual for such loosely drafted contracts to exist between the 
Parties when the said framework or in-principle agreement contemplates the 
execution of definitive, conclusive contracts to be executed in the future, as was the 
case with the Global APA. 
 
7.1.3 
the CTA specified not only the mechanics, but also the precise and final scope of the 
sale of the Indian unit. Further, the lists of products and assets in the Global APA 
were indicative and not specific to India. There were other significant terms in the 
CTA that were very different from those mentioned in the Global APA. 
 
7.1.4 
the Commission has taken the view that a document which merely constitutes a step 
towards the negotiations between the parties in relation to the finalization of the 

 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/12/349                                                                                                                    Page 4 of 15 
 
PUBLIC 
scheme, valuation, exact scope of the assets to be acquired, share entitlement ratio 
and also approval of the same by the Board of Directors of the respective parties 
cannot constitute the trigger event for the purpose of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of 
the Act.2 In the present case, the Global APA was a mere step in the negotiations 
between the parties. It was the CTA which finalised the scope of the assets to be 
acquired and the consideration. 
 
7.1.5 
the CTA and Global APA are governed by different laws and are under the exclusive 
jurisdiction of separate courts.[…….]. Since the CTA is not executed by the parties to 
the Global APA, it cannot constitute an amendment to the Global APA. 
 
7.2 
That both JJPL and Ethicon are subsidiaries of J&J. However, Ethicon, the entity which 
has entered the Global APA, does not own or control JJPL, directly or indirectly. JJPL 
and Ethicon are related through their ultimate parent, i.e., J&J, thereby making their 
relationship one of "sister" companies and not one of "parent" or holding company and 
subsidiary. Ethicon could not have executed a binding contract on behalf of its ‘sister’ 
company JJPL and it could not have bound JJPL in a valid contract without JJPL’s 
ratification, approval, adoption or confirmation of the Global APA. Further, Ethicon did 
not bind its ultimate shareholder i.e., J&J at the time of execution of the Global APA with 
Schulke Germany. In this regard, the Acquirer has referred to following judgements of 
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India: 
 
7.2.1 
In the case of M/s. Gujarat Bottling Co. Ltd. v. Coca Cola Company3, the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court held that an agreement by a company, to which the shareholder of 
that company is not a party, cannot have any binding force on the shareholders of the 
company; and 
 
7.2.2 
In the case of Indowind Energy Ltd. v. Wescare (I) Ltd. and Anr4, the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court has held that, "It is not in dispute that Subuthi and Indowind are two 
independent companies incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956. Each company 
is a separate and distinct legal entity and the mere fact that two companies have 
common shareholders or common Board of Directors, will not make the two 
                                                          
2 Aditya Birla Nuvo Limited/Pantaloon Retail (India) Limited, Order of the Commission dated 14 August 
2012 in Combination Reg. No. C-2012/07/69, at paragraph 7. 
3 AIR 1995 SC 2372. 
 
4 AIR 2010 SC 1793 

 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/12/349                                                                                                                    Page 5 of 15 
 
PUBLIC 
companies a single entity. Nor will existence of common shareholders or Directors 
lead to an inference that one company will be bound by the acts of the other. If the 
Director who signed on behalf of Subuthi was also a Director of Indowind and if the 
intention of the parties was that Indowind should be bound by the agreement, nothing 
prevented Wescare insisting that Indowind should be made a party to the agreement 
and requesting the Director who signed for Subuthi also to sign on behalf of 
Indowind. The very fact that parties carefully avoided making Indowind a party and 
the fact that the Director of Subuthi though a Director of Indowind, was careful not 
to sign the agreement as on behalf of Indowind, shows that the parties did not intend 
that Indowind should be a party to the agreement. Therefore, the mere fact that 
Subuthi described Indowind as its nominee or as a company promoted by it or that 
the agreement was purportedly entered by Subuthi on behalf of Indowind, will not 
make Indowind a party in the absence of a ratification, approval, adoption or 
confirmation of the agreement dated 24.2.2006 by Indowind." 
 
7.3 
That the transaction contemplated under the Global APA can avail the exemption under 
Notification No. SO 482 (E) dated 4th March 2011, as amended by the Corrigendum No. 
SO 1218 (E) dated 27th May 2011 (“De Minimis Exemption”), which exempts 
acquisitions of a target enterprise with assets not more than INR 250 crores or turnover 
not more than INR 750 crores in India. Ethicon (on a consolidated basis) does not have 
any assets amounting to INR 250 crore in India, and its turnover generated in India does 
not exceed INR 750 crore in India. In the event the Global APA is considered to be the 
trigger event under the Act, the parties to the combination would be Ethicon and Schulke 
Germany. Schulke Germany had considered the requirement of filing of a notice with the 
Commission and considering that the value of assets and turnover of Ethicon in India are 
less than the thresholds prescribed in the De Minimis Exemption, Schulke Germany 
understood that it would be able to avail the exemption provided therein. It has also been 
mentioned that Competition Appellate Tribunal has recently observed that the 
applicability of the exemption provided in the De Minimis Exemption is unconditional. 
 
7.4 
That Schulke Germany had, pursuant to the directions of the Commission, filed the notice 
bearing registration number C-2015/09/349 on 07.12.2015 with the Commission. The 
notice was filed by Schulke Germany without prejudice to the contents of the notice filed 
by Schulke India bearing registration number C-2015/09/310 and letters dated 
10.11.2015, 27.11.2015 and 30.11.2015. As mentioned in the notice filed on 07.12.2015, 
the value of assets and turnover of Ethicon in India were "Nil". The said notice was filed 

 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/12/349                                                                                                                    Page 6 of 15 
 
PUBLIC 
with the Commission by Schulke Germany as it wanted the approval to close the 
transaction in India at the earliest to enable the integration of the HAS business. 
 
7.5 
That the 30 calendar day period is arguably a redundant remnant of the days prior to the 
Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007 (“2007 Amendment Act”) because the 30 day time 
period is irrelevant when the combination must compulsorily be notified and also since 
parties cannot in any case close the transaction till such time as the Commission approves 
it. The Act remains one of the few competition statutes internationally that insist on 
parties to file within a specified time period of 30 days of executing an agreement or 
other document. It would result in a legal absurdity if the Commission would insist that 
parties enter into a definitive contract and arrangements merely to comply with the 30 
day deadline under Section 6(2) of the Act. 
 
8. 
With respect to the submissions of the Acquirer, as mentioned above, the Commission 
observed as under: 
 
8.1 
As per sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, a notice in respect of a proposed 
combination is required to be filed with the Commission, disclosing the details of the 
combination, within 30 days of execution of any agreement or other document. Clause 
(b) of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act uses the term “any agreement” which is 
indicative of intention to treat “any agreement” as the trigger document so long as the 
agreement pertains to an acquisition that meets the thresholds under Section 5 of the 
Act. The Act does not mandate that the “agreement” must be India-specific. It is also 
noted that even if the parties to the combination did not enter into CTA, the acquisition 
of HAS Business of Ethicon by Schulke Germany would have still been notifiable to 
the Commission, in terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act on the execution of 
Global APA, as the parties to the combination meet the jurisdictional thresholds 
prescribed under Section 5 of the Act. 
 
8.2 
In relation to distinction between global agreement and local agreement, the 
Commission in its order issued under Section 43A of the Act in the case of 
Baxalta/Baxter (C-2015/07/297) has held that “…. GSDA [Global Agreement] was a 
binding document executed between Baxter and Baxalta on 30.06.2015 for the purpose 
of the combination and thus satisfied the requirements of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of 
the Act. Thus, the argument of the Acquirer that the trigger event for the merger 
notification in India would be the local implementation agreement for the India 

 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/12/349                                                                                                                    Page 7 of 15 
 
PUBLIC 
Separation is not valid.” Similar observation was made by the Commission in its order 
issued under Section 43A of the Act in the case of Eli Lilly/Novartis (C-2015/07/289). 
The Commission in the said order5 observed that “…..In relation to the relevant trigger 
document in the instant case, the Commission noted that the combination relates to Eli 
Lilly’s acquisition of the global veterinary pharmaceuticals business of Novartis. 
Though, the parties had entered into the local SSA for the purposes of the transfer of 
the India business, the SAPA sets out the material terms and conditions pertaining to 
the transfer of NAH to Eli Lilly and create a binding obligation on the parties. Further, 
SAPA also provides that in case of conflict between SAPA and the local agreement to 
be executed between the Parties, SAPA will prevail over the said local agreement. It is 
observed that upon the execution of the SAPA and the satisfaction of the thresholds 
under Section 5 of the Act by the parties to the SAPA (viz., Novartis and Eli Lily), filing 
obligation under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act was triggered. Accordingly, the 
Commission is of the considered view that the agreement for acquisition under clause 
(b) of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act is the SAPA dated 22.04.2014 executed 
between Eli Lilly and Novartis and not the SSA entered into between Elanco India and 
Novartis India on 03.12.2014.” 
 
8.3 
The Commission in its above said two orders also observed that “…….in cases of 
global combinations (as in the present case), if the parties to the combination notify the 
combination to the Commission only upon the execution of a local agreement and not 
after execution of the global agreement, in spite of meeting jurisdictional thresholds 
prescribed under Section 5 of the Act, then there is possibility that the combination 
would be consummated at the global level even before the Commission has assessed 
the same under the relevant provisions of the Act (as has happened in the instant case). 
In such a situation, the independent market behaviour of the parties to the combination 
has already ceased even before the Commission carried out its assessment of the 
combination, which would defeat the purpose of the suspensory regime of regulation of 
combinations provided by Section 5 and 6 of the Act.” Thus, applying the same 
principle in the instant case, the Global APA must be treated as the trigger document 
for the purpose of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. 
 
                                                          
5 In the said case, Local SSA (Slump Sale Agreement) was the local agreement signed for the combination 
in India by the Indian entities whereas SAPA (Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement) was the global 
agreement signed between the parties to the combination.   

 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/12/349                                                                                                                    Page 8 of 15 
 
PUBLIC 
8.4 
It is also noted that the press release of Air Liquide Group including the related media 
reports on the instant acquisition, both globally and in India, have reported this 
transaction as a global acquisition of Ethicon’s HAS business by the Air Liquide 
Group. Thus, the combination relates to the global acquisition of the HAS business of 
Ethicon by Schulke Germany (direct acquirer within the Air Liquide Group) pursuant 
to the Global APA, and accordingly, the Global APA is the relevant agreement that 
triggers the filing obligation under Clause (b) of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. 
 
8.5 
[….]  
 
8.6 
In this relation, the Commission in its order issued under Section 43A of the Act in 
GE/Alstom [C-2015/01/241], had also observed that “…..in the event the initial 
understanding between the parties undergoes a change, then the Combination 
Regulations provide for the situations where the parties to the combination can inform 
the Commission about changes in the proposed combination. Regulation 16 of the 
Combination Regulations provide for the procedure to intimate changes in the 
information provided in the notice…… These provisions are of relevance to suggest 
that the Combination Regulations, in fact, perceives the possibility of a notified 
combination undergoing subsequent changes even to the extent of rescinding the very 
transaction.”  
 
8.7 
It is further noted that the CTA states “the Advanced Sterilization Products (“ASP”), a 
division of Ethicon Inc. and Schulke Germany entered into a framework Asset 
Purchase Agreement (“APA”) on March 25, 2015. On the basis of this APA, Seller and 
Buyer are entering into this Agreement. This Agreement specifies the scope and 
mechanics for the sale of the India business”. Thus, a bare reading of the CTA brings 
out the fact that the CTA was never intended to be the primary document based on 
which Schulke Germany or Schulke India acquired the HAS business. Accordingly, the 
purpose of the CTA was only to specify the mechanics and scope of the business to be 
transferred in India. The Global APA was the basis of the CTA and the Global APA 
itself created an obligation on the parties for the transfer of target business worldwide 
(including India).  
 
8.8 
It is further noted that though the CTA causes the asset transfer (i.e. it is the agreement 
that transfers title of the assets to Schulke India), [….]  
 

 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/12/349                                                                                                                    Page 9 of 15 
 
PUBLIC 
8.9 
Further, CTA also provides that “In the event of any conflict between APA and this 
Agreement, the terms of APA shall prevail.” Thus, it is clear that the Global APA shall 
prevail in case of any inconsistency between the Global APA and the CTA, thereby 
lending credence to the observation that the Global APA was always intended as the 
trigger document. In this regard, the Commission in its order issued under Section 43A 
in Eli Lilly/Novartis (C-2015/07/289) took cognisance of the fact that global agreement 
would prevail over local agreement while concluding that the global agreement is the 
trigger document under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act6. 
 
8.10 Accordingly, as referred to in the Global APA, the CTA is only a short-form agreement 
for implementing the transfer of HAS business, the terms and conditions of which have 
already been identified and set out in the Global APA. As such, it is the Global APA 
which is the relevant agreement for acquisition in the present combination for the 
purposes of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act.  The execution of the Global APA 
binds Schulke Germany in relation to its global acquisition of the HAS business of the 
ASP Division of Ethicon, including India. 
 
8.11 Further, the Acquirer’s reliance on the Commission’s order in Aditya Birla Nuvo 
Limited/Pantaloon Retail (India) Limited [C-2012/07/69] is misplaced, as the referred  
case pertained to the parties filing a notice with the Commission on the basis of an 
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) whose terms and conditions made it clear that 
the MoU (even though binding) was only “an interim arrangement” that will 
“terminate immediately on the execution of the implementation agreement or if the 
scheme does not get the approval by the Board of Directors of the respective parties”. 
Therefore, the MoU in that case was an intermediary document whose termination was 
certain, thereby necessitating another approval by the board of directors. In the instant 
case, the Global APA establishes the particulars of the assets, employees and products 
being transferred and sets out the obligations of its signatories in relation to the transfer 
of the business. Accordingly, the Global APA does not constitute a step towards 
negotiation, as claimed by the Acquirer.  
 
8.12 Also, the Commission in its order issued under Section 43A of the Act in Johnson & 
Johnson Innovation/Ethicon/Google [C-2015/06/283] observed as follows: 
                                                          
6 In the said order the Commission observed that “………SAPA also provides that in case of conflict 
between SAPA and the local agreement to be executed between the Parties, SAPA will prevail over the said 
local agreement…..” 

 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/12/349                                                                                                                    Page 10 of 15 
 
PUBLIC 
 
“With regard to the submission of the Parties that sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the 
Act affords discretion as to which agreement or document should be deemed relevant 
for the purposes of trigger for filing, it is observed that if the argument of the Parties is 
accepted, it would mean that parties may keep amending the transaction documents 
and thereby keep postponing the notification timelines. This would render the statutory 
timeline of filing a notice within 30 days of the execution of the agreement for 
acquisition, meaningless.”  
 
8.13 The contention of the Acquirer that the Global APA does not bind JJPL, is of no 
relevance to determine the notification requirements under the Act. In this regard, it is 
noted that Section 6(2) of the Act read with Regulation 9(1) and 9(3) of the 
Combination Regulations sets a distinction between (a) an acquisition and (b) a 
merger/amalgamation, w.r.t. the trigger requirements. In case of an acquisition, the 
onus of filing the notice is on the acquirer and the notice is to be filed within 30 days of 
“execution of any agreement or other document for acquisition”; whereas in the case of 
a merger, the onus of filing the notice is on both the parties involved in the 
merger/amalgamation and the notice is to be filed within 30 days of “approval of the 
proposal relating to merger or amalgamation….by the board of directors of the 
enterprises concerned with such merger or amalgamation”. As per provisions of the 
Act and the Combination Regulations, the obligation to file notice in the present case is 
on the acquirer i.e. Schulke Germany (a signatory to Global APA), irrespective of the 
fact whether the same is binding on JJPL or not. Therefore, Schulke Germany ought to 
have filed the notice with the Commission within 30 days of execution of the Global 
APA under Section 6(2) of the Act read with Regulation 9(1) of the Combination 
Regulations. 
 
8.14 In this regard, it is also noted that the European Court of Justice in Viho v Commission 
(Case C-73/95 P) has held that “a parent company and its subsidiaries form a single 
economic unit within which the subsidiaries do not enjoy real autonomy in determining 
their course of action in the market, but carry out the instructions issued to them by the 
parent company”. In the instant case, since Ethicon is a wholly owned subsidiary of 
J&J, it could not have taken an independent decision to enter into an agreement without 
the necessary consent of J&J. Since JJPL is also a wholly owned subsidiary of J&J and 
has entered into an interconnected agreement (CTA) with respect to the APA, it is 
apparent that the parties intended JJPL to be part of the composite scheme of the 

 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/12/349                                                                                                                    Page 11 of 15 
 
PUBLIC 
transaction. Without this understanding, Schulke Germany could not have entered into 
the Global APA with Ethicon for acquiring ASP Business globally and HAS Business 
in India. 
 
8.15 Further, it has been stated at paragraph 57 of the Notice that “Ethicon conducts its 
activities in India through JJPL.” Also, paragraph 63 of the Notice states that 
“Ethicon’s products in India are sold through JJPL.” Therefore, it is noted that JJPL is 
not merely a sister company of Ethicon but conducts HAS business in India on behalf 
of Ethicon. Thus, the contention of the Acquirer that Global APA was not binding on 
JJPL cannot be accepted.  
 
8.16 The Acquirer’s contention that the Global APA is not the trigger document hinges on 
their submission that JJPL is not a party to the Global APA. This seems to suggest that 
an Indian company necessarily would have to be a party to a “global agreement”, 
executed in order for the global agreement to trigger the notification requirements. This 
is not correct, as there are many combination cases where the notice has been filed with 
the Commission based on global agreement even if the Indian entities are not part of 
the global agreement. 
 
8.17 In relation to the arguments given through referring to two Supreme Court Judgements 
referred by the Acquirer i.e. M/s. Gujarat Bottling Co. Ltd. v. Coca Cola Company and 
Indowind Energy Ltd. v. Wescare (I) Ltd. and Anr, it is noted that in the case of Chloro 
Controls (I) P. Ltd. Vs Severn Trent Water Purification Inc. and Ors7, the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court has held as follows: 
 
“…the Courts under the English Law have, in certain cases, also applied the 
"Group of Companies Doctrine". This doctrine has developed in the international 
context, whereby an arbitration agreement entered into by a company, being one 
within a group of companies, can bind its non-signatory affiliates or sister or 
parent concerns, if the circumstances demonstrate that the mutual intention of all 
the parties was to bind both the signatories and the non-signatory affiliates.” 
 
“Where the agreements are consequential and in the nature of a follow-up to the 
principal or mother agreement, the latter containing the arbitration agreement and 
such agreements being so intrinsically intermingled or inter-dependent that it is 
                                                          
7 Civil Appeal No. 7134 of 2012, decided on 28.09.2012 

 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/12/349                                                                                                                    Page 12 of 15 
 
PUBLIC 
their composite performance which shall discharge the parties of their respective 
mutual obligations and performances, this would be a sufficient indicator of intent 
of the parties to refer signatory as well as non-signatory parties to arbitration.” 
 
“…an arbitration agreement entered into by a company within a group of 
companies can bind its non-signatory affiliates, if the circumstances demonstrate 
that the mutual intention of the parties was to bind both the signatory as well as the 
non-signatory parties.” 
 
8.18 In view of the above said judgement of Hon’ble Supreme Court, it is observed that the 
non-signatory companies can be bound by signatory affiliates, sister companies and 
parents, if the mutual intention of all the parties to the agreement was to bind both the 
signatory and non-signatory affiliates. In the instant case, with reference to the above 
said judgment, it is noted that  
 
a.) Schulke Germany and Ethicon specifically included the HAS Business in India in 
the Global APA; 
 
b.) CTA was “consequential and in the nature of a follow-up to the” Global APA; 
 
c.) CTA and the Global APA are “intrinsically intermingled or inter-dependent that it 
is their composite performance which shall discharge the parties of their respective 
mutual obligations and performances” 
 
In view of the foregoing, the circumstances demonstrate that the mutual intention of 
the parties was to bind both the signatory as well as the non-signatory parties i.e. the 
parties to the Global APA always intended that JJPL is also bound by the obligations 
contained in the Global APA. 
 
8.19 It is further observed that the De Minimis Exemption as applicable on the date of 
execution of Global APA read as under: 
 
“In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of Section 54 of the Competition 
Act, 2002 (12 of 2003) the Central Government, in public interest hereby exempts an 
enterprise, whose control, shares, voting rights or assets are being acquired has 
assets of the value of not more than INR 250 crores in India or turnover of no more 

 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/12/349                                                                                                                    Page 13 of 15 
 
PUBLIC 
than INR 750 crores in India from the provisions of Section 5 of the said Act for a 
period of 5 years” (emphasis added). 
  
Thus, for the purpose of determining applicability of De Minimis Exemption, the 
value of assets and turnover of the target enterprise (i.e. the entity whose control, 
shares, voting rights or assets are being acquired) is to be considered. Under the 
proposed combination, the entity whose assets were being acquired in India was JJPL 
and therefore, the value of assets and turnover of JJPL is to be considered for the 
purpose of determining the applicability of De Minimis Exemption. The value of 
assets and turnover of JJPL for the year ending on 31.03.2014 were Rs. 2702.89 crore 
and Rs. 4454.43 crore, respectively, which exceed the thresholds provided by De 
Minimis Exemption both in terms of value of assets and turnover. Thus, the 
exemption provided by the De Minimis Exemption was not available to the Acquirer 
in respect of the proposed combination.  
 
8.20 In this regard, it is important to note the language of the Section 5 which reads as 
under: 
 
“The acquisition of one or more enterprises by one or more persons or merger or 
amalgamation of enterprises shall be a combination of such enterprises and persons 
or enterprises, if— 
 
(a) 
any acquisition where— 
 
(i) the parties to the acquisition, being the acquirer and the enterprise, whose 
control, shares, voting rights or assets have been acquired or are being acquired 
jointly have……” 
(emphasis added) 
 
Thus, for the purpose of determining whether the parties to the acquisition meet the 
thresholds provided under Section 5(a) of the Act, the value of assets and turnover 
of the acquirer and the target enterprise (i.e. the entity whose control, shares, voting 
rights or assets are being acquired) are to be considered. In the instant case, though 
at the global level, the assets of Ethicon were being acquired, however in India, 
assets of JJPL were being acquired. Accordingly, for the purpose of calculation of 
thresholds under Section 5(a) of the Act, the value of assets and turnover of JJPL in 

 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/12/349                                                                                                                    Page 14 of 15 
 
PUBLIC 
India would be considered. Based on the same, the combination is notifiable under 
clause (a) of Section 5 of the Act. 
 
8.21 In relation to the contention of the Acquirer that 30 calendar day period is redundant, it 
is noted that the legislature, in its wisdom, while passing the 2007 Amendment Act, has 
kept the requirement of notification of a proposed combination within 30 days. The 
Commission, in its practice, cannot dispense with such a requirement laid down by the 
Act passed by Parliament of India.  
 
9. 
It is further noted that the Hon’ble Supreme Court has held in The Chairman, SEBI v Shriram 
Mutual Fund and Anr.8, that “…the penalty is attracted as soon as contravention of the 
statutory obligations as contemplated by the Act is established and, therefore, the intention of 
the parties committing such violation becomes immaterial. In other words, the breach of a 
civil obligation which attracts penalty under the provisions of an Act would immediately 
attract the levy of penalty irrespective of the fact whether the contravention was made by the 
defaulter with any guilty intention or not…”.  
 
10. 
In view of the foregoing, the Commission is of the opinion that the Acquirer failed to give 
notice to the Commission in accordance with the requirements of sub-section (2) of Section 6 
of the Act which attracts penalty under Section 43A of the Act. Section 43A of the Act reads 
as under: 
 
“If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission under sub-
section (2) of section 6, the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a 
penalty which may extend to one per cent of the total turnover or the assets, 
whichever is higher, of such a combination.” 
 
11. 
As per the details provided, the higher of the turnover or assets of the combination is 
approximately USD 81 million. Accordingly, in terms of Section 43A of the Act, the 
Commission can levy a maximum penalty of one per cent of USD 81 million (approximately 
INR 535 crore). However, the Commission has sufficient discretion to consider the conduct 
of the Parties and the circumstances of the case to arrive at an appropriate amount of penalty. 
Accordingly, the Commission considered totality of factors, while determining the quantum 
of penalty. In view of the foregoing, applying the principles of proportionality, the 
                                                          
8 In Supreme Court; Civil Appeal Nos. 9523-9524 of 2003. Decided on 23.05.2006. 

 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/12/349                                                                                                                    Page 15 of 15 
 
PUBLIC 
Commission considered it appropriate to impose a penalty of INR 25,00,000/- (INR twenty-
five lakhs only) on the Acquirer, which is well within the limits as prescribed under the Act.  
 
12. 
The Acquirer shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of this 
order. 
 
13. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Acquirer accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
