 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 28 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No.C-2017/02/485) 
11.12.2017 
 
Notice given by ITC Limited, pursuant to directions issued under Section 20 (1) 
of the Competition Act, 2002  
CORAM:  
Mr. Devender Kumar Sikri 
Chairperson 
 
Mr. S. L. Bunker 
Member 
 
Mr. Sudhir Mital 
Member 
 
Mr. Augustine Peter  
Member 
 
Mr. U. C. Nahta 
Member 
 
Justice G. P. Mittal  
Member 
 
Appearances during oral hearing on 27.07.2017: 
For ITC Limited  
Mr. Amit Sibal, Senior Advocate  
Mr. G. R. Bhatia, Advocate 
Mr. Abdullah Hussain, Advocate 
Ms. Kanika Nayar, Advocate 
Ms. Nidhi Singh, Advocate 
 
Ms. Prerna Parashar, Advocate 
 
Mr. Tahir Siddiqui, Advocate 
 
Mr. Rohan Alva, Advocate 
 
Mr. Aditya Gupta, Advocate 
 
Mr. Sarawswan Mukherjee, Senior Legal Manager 
 
Mr. Anubhab Dasgupta, Associate Legal Manager 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 2 of 28 
 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 (“Act”) 
 
Background 
 
1. 
The Competition Commission of India (“Commission”), in its meeting held 
on 15.01.2016, noted that ITC Limited (hereinafter, referred to as the 
“Acquirer” / “ITC”) acquired ‘Savlon’ and ‘Shower to Shower’ trademarks 
(“Transaction”) from the Johnson & Johnson Group. However, the said 
acquisition was not notified to the Commission as required under Section 6 
(2) of the Act. Accordingly, the Commission decided to initiate an inquiry 
under Section 20 (1) of the Act in respect of the Transaction. Vide letter dated 
11.02.2016, the Acquirer was asked to provide information relating to the 
value of assets and turnover of the parties to the Transaction along with the 
copies of the related agreements. Vide letter dated 08.03.2016, the Acquirer, 
inter alia, submitted that the Transaction is not an ‘acquisition of one or more 
enterprises’ as required under Section 5 read with Section 2 (h) of the Act. 
The Acquirer finally submitted the requisite information on 03.05.2016, after 
seeking extension of time. 
 
2. 
Based on the response of the Acquirer and other information available on 
record, the Commission, in its meeting held on 14.10.2016, observed that the 
Transaction meets the notification thresholds prescribed under the Act. The 
Transaction therefore, appears to be a notifiable combination under the 
relevant provisions of the Act. Accordingly, in terms of Section 20 (1) of the 
Act read with Regulation 8 of the Competition Commission of India 
(Procedure in Regard to the Transaction of Business relating to 
Combinations) Regulations, 2011 (“Combination Regulations”), vide letter 
dated 07.11.2016, the Acquirer was directed by the Commission to file notice 
in Form I within 30 days of the receipt of the communication. The said 
decision was taken without prejudice to any penalty proceedings under the 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 3 of 28 
 
provisions of the Act. The Acquirer filed the notice on 16.02.2017, after 
seeking extension of time. 
 
3. 
As per information given in the notice, the Acquirer entered into two separate 
asset purchase agreements on 12.02.2015, one each with: 
 
a) Johnson and Johnson Private Limited (J&J India or Seller 1) for the 
purchase of trademark ‘Savlon’ along with certain attendant inventories, 
know-how, molds and promotional material (Transaction 1); and 
 
b) Johnson and Johnson Pte Ltd. (J&J Singapore or Seller 2) for the 
purchase of trademark ‘Shower to Shower’ along with certain attendant 
inventories, know-how, molds and promotional material (Transaction 
2). 
 
(Hereinafter, Seller 1 and Seller 2 are collectively referred to as the “Sellers”) 
 
4. 
In its meeting held on 22.03.2017, the Commission considered and assessed 
the combination and approved the same by passing an order under Section 31 
(1) of the Act. The said order was passed without prejudice to any 
proceedings under Section 43A of the Act. 
 
Proceedings under Section 43A 
 
5. 
As already stated, acquisition of ‘Savlon’ and ‘Shower to Shower’ trademarks 
along with other related assets by the Acquirer was a combination in terms of 
Section 5 of the Act and ought to have been notified to the Commission in 
accordance with Section 6 (2) of the Act. It was also noted from the 
submissions of the Acquirer that the combination was already consummated 
before the expiry of time provided under Section 6 (2A) of the Act. 
 
6. 
In view of the foregoing, it prima facie appeared that the Acquirer not only 
failed to give notice of the combination to the Commission within the 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 4 of 28 
 
stipulated time period as provided under Section 6 (2) of the Act but also 
effected the same before the expiry of 210 days from the day on which the 
notice was given to the Commission or an order was passed by the 
Commission under Section 31 of the Act, whichever is earlier, in 
contravention of Section 6 (2) read with Section 6 (2A) of the Act. Therefore, 
in its meeting held on 22.03.2017, the Commission decided to issue a show 
cause notice to the Acquirer under Section 43A of the Act read with 
Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India (General) 
Regulations, 2009 (“General Regulations”). Accordingly, a show cause 
notice dated 29.03.2017 (“SCN”), was issued to the Acquirer to explain, in 
writing, within 15 days of the receipt of such communication as to how it has 
not contravened the provisions of Section 6 (2) read with Section 6 (2A) of 
the Act and why penalty, in terms of Section 43A of the Act, should not be 
imposed upon it . The Acquirer filed its response on 28.04.2017with the 
Commission, after seeking extension of time. 
 
7. 
The Commission, in its meeting held on 28.06.2017, considered the matter 
and decided to grant an oral hearing to the Acquirer, as per its request. The 
Commission heard the authorized representatives of the Acquirer on 
27.07.2017. Pursuant to the oral hearing, the Acquirer filed written 
submissions on 09.08.2017 detailing the arguments made before the 
Commission during the oral hearing. The Commission notes that, vide written 
and oral submissions, the Acquirer has, inter alia, made the following 
submissions: 
 
7.1 
That a combined reading of Section 2 (h) and Section 5 of the Act suggests 
that only the acquisition of an enterprise (including a ‘person’), as defined 
under the Act, would amount to a combination. It is essential that for a 
transaction to qualify as ‘combination’, there is acquisition of an 
‘enterprise’. A trademark is not an enterprise or a ‘person’ as defined in 
Section 2 (l) of the Act or in Section 2 (42) of the General Clauses Act, 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 5 of 28 
 
1897. Therefore, considering the scheme of the Act, including a 
harmonious reading of Section 2 (h), 2 (l) and Section 5, purchase of 
trademarks (including incidental rights, property and/ or interests), would 
not tantamount to “acquisition of an enterprise” as envisaged under 
Section 5 of the Act and hence, the same cannot be a ‘combination’ under 
the Act. In support of its arguments, the Acquirer has referred to judgment 
of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in Competition Commission of 
India v. Coordination Committee of Artistes and Technicians of West 
Bengal Films and Television. 
 
7.2 
That ITC has not acquired the entire business of the products sold under 
the ‘Savlon’ and ‘Shower to Shower’ trademarks, but rather has merely 
purchased the said trademarks and incidental rights, property and/ or 
interests. Further, ITC has acquired neither any immovable property or 
manufacturing facility under Transaction 1 and/ or Transaction 2 nor 
business of the products sold under the ‘Savlon’ and ‘Shower to Shower’ 
trademarks. Also, the agreements did not impose any non-compete 
restrictions and the Sellers are still entitled to continue the business of the 
products sold under the trademarks. Therefore, Transaction 1 and/ or 
Transaction 2 do not fall within the ambit of Section 5 of the Act and as 
such, no obligation is created under Section 6 of the Act to notify the 
Transaction to the Commission. 
 
7.3 
That without prejudice to the contention that Transaction 1 and/ or 
Transaction 2 do not fulfil the definitional criterion laid down in Section 5 
of the Act, said transactions fall within the scope and ambit of Item 3 of 
Schedule I of the Combination Regulations, 2011. Regulation 4 of the 
Combination Regulations, 2011 states that certain categories of 
combinations which are specified in Schedule I are ordinarily not likely to 
cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition (AAEC) and hence, 
notice with respect to such transactions need not normally be filed. In the 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 6 of 28 
 
present matter, purchase of the afore-mentioned trademarks was not 
directly related to the business activity of ITC as it was not present in the 
relevant markets, was in the ordinary course of business of ITC and does 
not give ITC any control over the enterprise from whom the trademarks 
were acquired. Therefore, though satisfaction of only one criterion is 
necessary for ITC to be exempted from filing the notice, all the criteria 
prescribed under Item 3 of Schedule I of the Combination Regulations are 
fulfilled.  
 
7.4 
That the monetary thresholds that ought to be considered are the relevant 
figures attributable to the trademarks purchased by ITC. Under the Act, 
since an enterprise i.e., a person carrying on business has to be acquired in 
order to come within the definition of ‘combination’, the thresholds 
specified under Section 5 are also in terms of the value or size of the 
‘combination’. Therefore, if the purchase of the trademarks simpliciter is 
to be treated as a ‘combination’, then the relevant asset value and turnover 
to be considered for the purposes of the threshold are the value of the 
trademarks purchased and the turnover of the products attributable to such 
trademarks. The form of legal entity in which the acquired assets reside 
should not merit a difference in treatment under competition law. 
Competition law cannot be said to favour use of incorporated subsidiaries 
over unincorporated business divisions. 
 
7.5 
That the Ministry of Corporate Affairs vide notification no. S.O. 988 (E) 
dated 27.03.2017 (“New De Minimis Notification”) has clarified that the 
size of the asset being acquired is relevant for assessing notifiability of the 
transaction under the Act and not the size of the party from whom the asset 
is being acquired. The said notification provides that: 
 
“2. Where a portion of an enterprise or division or business is 
being acquired, taken control of, merged or amalgamated with 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 7 of 28 
 
another enterprise, the value of assets of the said portion or 
division or business attributable to it, shall be the relevant assets 
and turnover to be taken into account for the purpose of 
calculating the thresholds under Section 5 of the Act.”  
(emphasis supplied) 
 
This, in effect, means that while assessing notifiability of a transaction, the 
first assessment would be to ascertain if the assets and turnover of the 
relevant business being acquired (as against the assets and turnover of the 
Target entity) breach Rs. 350 crores in assets and Rs. 1000 crores, 
respectively. 
 
7.6 
That the New De Minimis Notification, being clarificatory to the De 
Minimis notifications dated 04.03.2011 and 04.03.2016, would have 
retrospective operation and therefore, would apply to the pending 
proceedings under the Act. In support of its arguments, the Acquirer has 
referred to various judgments of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in 
Commissioner of Income Tax v. Gold Coin Health Food Private Limited, 
(2008) 9 SCC 622; Commissioner of Income Tax v. Vatika Township 
Private Limited, (2015) 1 SCC 1 and Government of India and Others v. 
Indian Tobacco Association, (2005) 7 SCC 396. 
 
7.7 
Further, the press release dated 30.03.2017 of the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs issued along with the notification also states that the notification is 
clarificatory in nature. Therefore, considering the relevant turnover of the 
products attributable to the trademarks purchased, Transaction 1 and 
Transaction 2 fall within the ambit of the De Minimis Exemption (i.e. 
notification S.O. 482 (E) dated 04.03.2011), which exempts ‘an enterprise 
whose control, shares, voting rights or assets are being acquired if it either 
has assets of the value of not more than Rs. 250 Crores in India or turnover 
of not more than Rs.750 Crores in India’. 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 8 of 28 
 
 
7.8 
That the clarification provided vide the above said notification came prior 
to the issuance of the SCN dated 29.03.2017 and therefore, ITC is entitled 
to draw benefit from the same. Further, the penalty under Section 43A of 
the Act applies only to a person who fails to give notice under Section 6 
(2) of the Act. In the present case, ITC had filed the notice in Form I as 
directed by the Commission much before the issuance of the SCN dated 
29.03.2017. To attract the penal provisions under Section 43A, the offence 
or the act complained of should have been subsisting at the time of issuing 
the SCN, which is clear from the language employed in the Section (‘any 
person who fails to’). At the time of the SCN, it cannot be said that ITC 
was a ‘person who fails to give notice’ as contemplated under Section 
43A. Therefore, Section 43A cannot be invoked in respect of an act which 
has already been completed and is no longer a failure at the time of 
issuance of the SCN. In this regard, the Acquirer has referred to judgment 
of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in Commissioner of Central Excise 
v. M/s Krishna Cylinders, Appeal No. ST/ 222/ 2009-CU (DB). 
 
7.9 
That in accordance with the directions of the Commission, ITC filed notice 
in Form I which was accepted by the Commission. The Commission also 
approved Transaction 1 and Transaction 2 after holding that the said 
transactions did not raise any AAECin the relevant markets in India, by 
passing an order dated 22.03.2017 under Section 31 (1) of the Act. In the 
circumstances, the delay, if any, on the part of ITC in not filing Form I was 
condoned by the Commission. Therefore, at the time of issuance of SCN, 
there was no default on the part of ITC to notify. Accordingly, penalty 
should not be imposed on ITC under Section 43A of the Act. 
 
7.10 
That ITC reasonably believed that at the time of entering into Transaction 
1 and Transaction 2, there was no requirement to file an application under 
Section 6 of the Act, and this belief is stated to be fortified by the reading 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 9 of 28 
 
of the provisions of the Act, as well as transactions of similar nature in 
respect of which also, no application under Section 6 was made to the 
Commission. Therefore, ITC had acted in a bona fide manner and there 
was no wilful failure or neglect or any contumacious conduct, which 
requires imposition of any penalty on ITC. 
 
7.11 
That in relation to applicability of penal provisions and imposition of 
penalty, the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India has taken the view that 
penalties should not be imposed on parties who have taken a view and 
acted on bona fide and reasonable belief. In this regard, the Acquirer has 
referred to various judgments of Hon’ble Supreme in Hindustan Steel 
Limited v. State of Orissa, (1969) 2 SCC 627; J.K. Synthetics Limited v. 
Commercial Taxes Officer, (1994) 4 SCC 276; Karnataka Rare Earth v. 
Senior Geologist, Department of Mines and Geology, (2004) 2 SCC 783, 
Sanjay Industrial Corporation v. CCE, Mumbai, (2015) 14 SCC 639; 
Commissioner of Central Excise, Calcutta-II v. India Aluminium Company 
Limited, (2010) 15 SCC 167; EID Parry (I) Limited v. Asst. Commissioner 
of Commercial Taxes, (2000) 2 SCC 321, Cement Marketing Company of 
India Limited v. Asst. Commissioner of Sales Tax, Indore, (1980) 1 SCC 71 
and Uniflex Cables Limited v. Commissioner, Central Excise, Surat-II, 
(2011) 14 SCC 568; of the Hon’ble erstwhile Competition Appellate 
Tribunal (“CompAT”) in Thomas Cook (India) Limited and Others v. 
Competition Commission of India, (2015) Comp. L.R. 953 and A.R. 
Polymers Private Limited v. Competition Commission of India, Appeal 
Nos. 34; and of the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi in Commissioner of 
Income Tax-IV v. Fortis Financial Services Limited, ITA Nos. 243/2011 
and 244/2011.  In the present case, the purported violation is based on a 
reasonable and bona fide belief of ITC that Transaction 1 and/ or 
Transaction 2 were not notifiable under Section 6 of the Act. Further, ITC 
cannot be said to have acted in a contumacious, dishonest or deceptive 
manner, nor it has acted deliberately in defiance of law or acted in 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 10 of 28 
 
conscious disregard of its obligations. Therefore, the Commission should 
not levy any penalty on ITC in respect of notification of Transaction 1 and/ 
or Transaction 2. 
 
7.12 
That the dissent note dated 14.07.2016 in the order passed under Section 
43A in the case of Sundaram Finance Limited, C-2015/03/257, was 
expressive of the intent of the Commission to not impose penalties in cases 
of default under the previous unamended provision/ exemption, when the 
same act would not result in contravention of the amended provision 
which removes the requirement of notice as on the date of hearing. In the 
said case, the dissent note found a delay of more than 3 months in filing 
the notice, but no penalty was imposed under Section 43A of the Act. The 
Commission, as a matter of principle, decided that penalty should not 
follow in such cases and the said principle should not be ignored on the 
basis that the same emanates from the minority, as there was no dissent on 
the quantum of penalty from the majority. This is also the case in the 
present matter since the acquisition by ITC of the trademarks, if it were to 
happen today, is exempt under the New De Minimis Notification dated 
27.03.2017. 
 
8. 
In addition to above, the Acquirer has submitted that the Commission may 
consider the following mitigating circumstances: 
 
8.1 
At the time of signing of agreements, there was no order of the 
Commission that clarified that in the case of mere acquisition of 
trademarks, the assets and turnover of the seller entity had to be taken into 
consideration. 
 
8.2 
There was no reason for ITC to conceal Transaction 1 and/ or Transaction 
2 or their details from any scrutiny by the Commission. 
 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 11 of 28 
 
8.3 
ITC has demonstrated its good conduct right from the receipt of the first 
communication from the Commission in February 2016, and has 
responded to all the communications received from the Commission.  
 
8.4 
It has never been the intent of ITC to act deliberately in defiance of the law 
or in conscious disregard of its obligations under the Act or to avoid or 
mislead the Commission in any manner. Therefore, a distinction should be 
made between wilful disobedience of the law and an inadvertent omission 
due to misconception. 
 
8.5 
There was no non-compete clause in either the agreement for Transaction 
1 or the agreement for Transaction 2. Hence, there was no impediment on 
healthy competition in the market. 
 
9. 
The Commission has carefully perused the written as well as oral submissions 
of the Acquirer. Before going into examination of this issue, it would be 
appropriate to refer to the various provisions of the Act. Section 5 of the Act 
reads as under:  
 
“The acquisition of one or more enterprises by one or more 
persons or merger or amalgamation of enterprises shall be a 
combination of such enterprises and persons or enterprises, if –  
Any acquisition where 
(a) The parties to the acquisition, being the acquirer and the 
enterprise whose control, share, voting rights or assets have 
been acquired or are being acquired jointly have, - 
(A)….. 
(B)…. 
 
 
………………………”            (emphasis added) 
 
 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 12 of 28 
 
Section 6 (2) of the Act reads as under: 
“…… any person or enterprise, who or which proposes to 
enter into a combination, shall give notice to the 
Commission………. disclosing the details of the proposed 
combination, within thirty days of…….… execution of any 
agreement or other document for acquisition referred to in 
clause (a) of section 5 or acquiring of control referred to in 
clause (b) of that section”  
 
Section 6 (2A) of the Act reads as under: 
“No combination shall come into effect until two hundred and 
ten days have passed from the day on which the notice has 
been given to the Commission under sub-section (2) or the 
Commission has passed orders under section 31, whichever is 
earlier.” 
 
Thus, any merger or acquisition which meets the jurisdictional thresholds 
prescribed by Section 5 of the Act in terms of the value of assets and turnover 
of the parties concerned is a notifiable combination. In terms of Section 6 (2) 
of the Act, an enterprise, which proposes to enter into a combination, is 
required to give notice to the Commission, disclosing the details of the 
proposed combination, within thirty days of execution of any agreement or 
other document for acquisition. Further, as per Section 6 (2A) of the Act, a 
combination shall not come into effect until 210 days have passed from the 
date of filing of the notice with the Commission or the date on which the 
Commission has passed any order under Section 31 of the Act, whichever is 
earlier. 
 
10. 
The Commission notes that based on the value of assets and turnover of the 
parties to the combination as provided by the Acquirer, on the date of the 
agreement, acquisition of ‘Savlon’ and ‘Shower to Shower’ trademarks along 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 13 of 28 
 
with other related assets by the Acquirer from Seller 1 and Seller 2 met the 
jurisdictional thresholds prescribed by Section 5 (a) (i) (A) of the Act. 
Accordingly, such acquisition of trademarks i.e. assets is a notifiable 
combination in terms of Section 6 (2) of the Act. The Commission also notes 
that the benefit of Regulation 4 read with Item 3 of Schedule I of the 
Combination Regulations as well as De Minimis Exemption dated 04.03.2011 
are not available in the present matter, for the reasons explained in the 
succeeding paragraphs.  
 
11. 
With respect to the written and oral submissions of the Acquirer as mentioned 
above, the Commission observed as under: 
 
11.1 
The Acquirer contended that acquisition of trademarks does not 
tantamount to ‘acquisition of an enterprise’ as required under Section 5 
of the Act and therefore, the same cannot be a combination notifiable 
under the Act. However, the Commission observes that Section 5 (a) (i) 
of the Act provides that an acquisition, where the parties to an 
acquisition, being the acquirer and the enterprise whose control, share, 
voting rights or assets have been acquired or are being acquired jointly 
meet the prescribed thresholds, will be a combination. Accordingly, any 
acquisition where the acquirer enterprise and the enterprise whose 
assets/ control/ voting rights/ shares have been acquired jointly meet the 
prescribed thresholds, the combination becomes reportable under 
Section 6 (2) of the Act. Thus, a plain reading of Section 5 (a) (i) of the 
Act implies that acquisition of assets of an enterprise would also be a 
combination if the prescribed thresholds are met. 
 
11.2 
Further, the definition of ‘acquisition’ under Section 2 (a) of the Act 
provides that: 
 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 14 of 28 
 
 “acquisition” means, “directly or indirectly, acquiring or 
agreeing to acquire –  
 (i) shares, voting rights or assets of any enterprise; or 
(ii) control over management or control over assets of any 
enterprise”  
 
 
                           (emphasis added) 
 
Accordingly, Section 2 (a) read with Section 5 of the Act states that a 
combination includes not only acquisition of an enterprise as a whole 
but also acquisition of assets of an enterprise. Therefore, acquisition of 
certain assets housed within an enterprise in the form of a division, 
department or otherwise would also attract the provisions of Section 5 
of the Act. 
 
11.3 
With regard to the argument of the Acquirer that acquisition of mere 
trademarks of an enterprise does not amount to acquisition of ‘assets’, 
the Commission observes that trademarks are considered an asset as 
they provide economic value to their owners. Similar treatment has 
been given to trademarks under the Act also. Explanation (c) of Section 
5 of the Act, which reads as under, provides that under competition law 
also, trademarks are an asset which have to be considered while 
determining thresholds under the provisions of the Act: 
 
“the value of assets shall be determined by taking the book 
value of the assets as shown, in the audited books of account of 
the enterprise, in the financial year immediately preceding the 
financial year in which the date of proposed merger falls, as 
reduced by any depreciation, and the value of assets shall 
include the brand value, value of goodwill, or value of copyright, 
patent, permitted use, collective mark, registered proprietor, 
registered 
trade 
mark, 
registered 
user, 
homonymous 
geographical indication, geographical indications, design or 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 15 of 28 
 
layout-design or similar other commercial rights, if any, referred 
to in sub-section (5) of Section 3.”                      (emphasis added)  
 
Thus, acquisition of trademarks is an acquisition of assets in terms of 
Section 5 (a) of the Act and is a combination if the jurisdictional 
thresholds are met. The interpretation taken by the Acquirer that for a 
transaction to qualify as a combination, there should be acquisition of 
an enterprise, would not only go against the provisions of the Act as 
explained in the previous paragraphs but would also defeat the purpose 
of combination regulation in India. If such an interpretation were to be 
accepted, all parties may structure their transaction in such a manner 
that all the assets of an enterprise would be transferred without actually 
transferring the ownership of the enterprise itself and the transaction 
will not be reportable to the Commission for scrutiny. This 
interpretation will render the provisions of the Act nugatory, which is 
clearly not the intent of the legislation.  
 
11.4 
The Commission also observes that acquisition of immovable properties 
or manufacturing facilities is not a pre-requisite for attracting Section 5 
of the Act, as assets includes not only tangible assets but also intangible 
assets, in the form of intellectual property rights viz. trademarks.  
 
11.5 
The Acquirer also contended that there is no non-compete covenant 
imposed on the Sellers. In this regard, the Commission is of the view 
that absence or presence of a non-compete covenant in the transaction 
agreement is inconsequential as far as determination of notifiability of a 
transaction under Sections 5 and 6 of the Act is concerned. 
 
11.6 
As regard the submissions of the Acquirer that the Transaction falls 
within the scope and ambit of Item 3 of Schedule I of the Combination 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 16 of 28 
 
Regulations, the Commission deems it appropriate to refer to Item 3 of 
Schedule I of the Combination Regulations which reads as under: 
 
“An acquisition of assets…….not directly related to the 
business activity of the party acquiring the asset or made 
solely as an investment or in the ordinary course of business, 
not leading to control of the enterprise whose assets are being 
acquired except where the assets being acquired represent 
substantial business operations in a particular location or for 
a particular product or service of the enterprise, of which 
assets are being acquired, irrespective of whether such assets 
are organized as a separate legal entity or not.”                   
(emphasis added) 
 
The Commission notes that although the Acquirer did not operate in the 
business of antiseptic liquid or antibacterial soap/ hand wash or prickly 
heat powder in respect of which the acquired trademarks were being 
used, it was operating in the field of personal care products, which 
includes antiseptic liquid or antibacterial soap/ hand wash or prickly 
heat powder. Thus, the argument of the Acquirer that the acquisition of 
trademarks is not directly related to its business activities cannot be 
accepted. Moreover, purchase of intellectual property of a competitor 
by a business enterprise cannot be construed as being a transaction in 
the ordinary course of its business. ITC is, inter alia, engaged in the 
business of selling personal care products and not in the business of 
selling/ purchasing intellectual property rights related to those products. 
 
11.7 
The Commission, in its order dated 10.02.2015, passed under Section 
43A of the Act in Case No. C-2014/05/175 involving SCM Soilfert 
Limited, observed that:  
 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 17 of 28 
 
“……..the categories of combinations listed in Schedule I 
to the Combination Regulations must be interpreted in 
light of the Commission’s objectives (listed in Section 18 
of the Act) and the intent of Schedule I (expressed in 
Regulation 4 of the Combination Regulations). This means 
that the categories of combinations listed in Schedule I as 
normally not notifiable ought not to include combinations 
which envisage or are likely to cause a change in control 
or are of the nature of strategic combinations including 
those between competing enterprises or enterprises active 
in vertical markets.”                                 (emphasis added) 
 
Accordingly, the Commission is of the considered opinion that 
acquisition of trademarks is directly related to the business activity of 
the Acquirer and hence, not made solely as an investment or in the 
ordinary course of business. Thus, the benefit of Item 3 of Schedule I of 
the Combination Regulations is not available to the Acquirer in the 
present matter. 
 
11.8 
The Acquirer also submitted that the value of the relevant asset or 
relevant turnover of the products sold under the trademarks acquired, 
should be taken into account for checking the thresholds, by placing 
reliance on the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in 
Excel Crop Care Limited v. Competition Commission of India and 
Others, (2017) 8 SCC 47. The Commission notes that, as on the date of 
execution of the agreements for the purpose of Transaction 1 and 
Transaction 2, in terms of Section 5 (a) (i) of the Act, the value of the 
assets and turnover of the parties to the acquisition i.e. the acquirer and 
the enterprise whose assets are being acquired, have to be taken into 
consideration for the purpose of calculation of thresholds, and not the 
value of assets and turnover attributable to the product being acquired. 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 18 of 28 
 
This position has been changed only after New De Minimis 
Notification, as discussed below. 
 
11.9 
The Acquirer also contended that the New De Minimis Notification is 
clarificatory in nature and therefore, it should have retrospective 
application. In this regard, the Commission notes Transaction 1 and 
Transaction 2 took place on 12.02.2015; as such, the obligation to 
notify the same under Section 6 (2) of the Act arose within 30 days. At 
that point in time, De Minimis Notification No. SO 482 (E) dated 
04.03.2011, as amended by Corrigendum No. SO 1218 (E) dated 
27.05.2011, was in force which reads as under: 
 
“In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of section 54 
of the Competition Act, 2002 (12 of 2003), the Central 
Government, in public interest, hereby exempts an enterprise, 
whose control, shares, voting rights or assets are being acquired 
has either assets of the value of not more than Rs. 250 crore in 
India or turnover of not more than Rs. 750 crore in India from 
the provisions of section 5 of the said Act for a period of five 
years.” 
 
Thus, going by plain reading of this notification, the value of the assets 
and turnover to be considered for determining applicability of the said 
notification was that of the enterprise itself and not of the assets being 
acquired, as claimed by the Acquirer in the present matter. The 
Commission notes that based on the value of assets and turnover of the 
Sellers (whose assets were acquired) as provided by the Acquirer, the 
acquisition of ‘Savlon’ and ‘Shower to Shower’ trademarks along with 
other related assets by the Acquirer from the Sellers, does not qualify 
for the De Minimis Notification dated 04.03.2011.  
 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 19 of 28 
 
11.10 
In relation to the contention of the Acquirer that the New De Minimis 
Notification is clarificatory in nature and therefore, would have 
retrospective operation, the Commission observes that the said 
notification seeks to substantively change not only the manner in which 
the value of assets and turnover (of the target entity) is determined for 
the purpose of Section 5 of the Act but also the principle for 
determining the applicability of De Minimis Exemption itself. The very 
fact that the said notification has a life span of only 5 years strengthens 
the view that it is not clarificatory in nature and hence, do not have 
retrospective application.  
 
11.11 
A recent judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Union of India and 
Others v. IndusInd Bank Limited and Others, (2016) 9 SCC 720 
indicates that when changes in law are “substantive changes in the 
law”, then these are “remedial in nature and cannot have retrospective 
effect”. 
 
11.12 
Further, the Constitutional Bench of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in 
Shyam Sunder and Another v. Ram Kumar and Another, (2001) 8 SCC 
24, held  as under: 
 
“In Maxwell on the Interpretation of Statutes, 12th Edn. the 
statement of law in this regard is stated thus: 
 
“Perhaps no rule of construction is more firmly established 
than thus – that a retrospective operation is not to be given to 
a statute so as to impair an existing right or obligation, 
otherwise than as regards matters of procedure, unless that 
effect cannot be avoided without doing violence to the 
language of the enactment. If the enactment is expressed in 
language which is fairly capable of either interpretation, it 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 20 of 28 
 
ought to be construed as prospective only.” The rule has, in 
fact, two aspects, for it, “involves another and subordinate 
rule, to the effect that a statute is not to be construed so as to 
have a greater retrospective operation than its language 
renders necessary.”   
 
           (emphasis supplied)  
 
11.13 
The Commission further observes that the Hon’ble Supreme Court in 
Commissioner of Income Tax v. Vatika Township Private Limited, 
(2015) 1 SCC 1 (which has been relied upon by the Acquirer itself) 
states that: 
 
“legislations which modified accrued rights or which 
impose obligations or impose new duties or attach a new 
disability have to be treated as prospective unless the 
legislative intent is clearly to give the enactment a 
retrospective effect”. 
 
11.14 
The Commission also notes that nowhere it is stated in the New De 
Minimis Notification that operation of the said notification is 
retrospective in nature. The substantive changes brought about by the 
said notification cannot be construed as retrospective in nature, as it 
would otherwise create chaos, and perhaps lead to opening of all the old 
closed transactions for fresh scrutiny as per the new notification 
particularly, interpreting the term ‘turnover’. In view of the above, the 
judgments cited by the Acquirer do not hold any water.  
 
11.15 
The Acquirer seeks to bolster its claim that the New De Minimis 
Notification is clarificatory in nature by citing the press release dated 
30.03.2017. However, in this regard, the Commission from the 
judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Commissioner of Income 
Tax, Mumbai v. Anjum M.H. Ghaswala and Others, (2002) 1 SCC 633, 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 21 of 28 
 
notes that a press release does not have statutory force as that of a 
notification and therefore, cannot alter the statutory position prescribed 
by law. 
 
11.16 
The Acquirer also contended that benefit from the New De Minimis 
Notification dated 27.03.2017 can be availed by it as the SCN was 
issued by the Commission subsequently i.e. on 29.03.2017. The 
Acquirer also contended that Section 43A of the Act can be attracted 
only if the offence is subsisting at the time of issuing of the SCN. 
However, the Commission notes that the trigger documents in the 
present case were executed on 12.02.2015. Under Section 6 (2) of the 
Act, the Acquirer is under an obligation to file notice pertaining to an 
acquisition/ merger within a period of 30 days of the execution of a 
trigger document. Therefore, the notice under Section 6 (2) of the Act 
ought to have been filed by the Acquirer with the Commission within 
30 days from 12.02.2015, i.e. by 12.03.2015. The cause of action for 
initiation of present Section 43A proceedings therefore, arose from 
12.03.2015 onwards, notwithstanding the fact that the SCN was issued 
on 29.03.2017. Accordingly, the relevant date to be considered for 
determination of violation of Section 43A of the Act is 12.03.2015 i.e. 
when the 30-days period to file notice with the Commission expired and 
not 27.03.2017 when the SCN was issued. The fact that the 
Commission directed the Acquirer to file a notice in Form I with the 
Commission vide its letter dated 07.11.2016 is suggestive of the fact 
that contravention of Section 6 (2) crystallised on 12.03.2015 itself. In 
view of above, the contention of the Acquirer that benefit of the 
clarification in the form of the New De Minimis Notification dated 
27.03.2017, which came prior to the issuance of the SCN, is available to 
it, cannot be accepted. 
 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 22 of 28 
 
11.17 
As regards the contention of the Acquirer that the Commission did not 
find any AAEC to raise any competition concern, it is observed that 
Section 5 of the Act sets out the conditions for notifiability, including 
the thresholds. When the conditions of notifiability are satisfied, a 
notice of the ‘proposed’ combination has to be given to the Commission 
within 30 days of entering into binding document as per Section 6 (2) of 
the Act. After receipt of the notice, the combination is assessed, based 
on the parameters set out in Section 20 (4) of the Act, to determine the 
AAEC. A finding by the Commission that the combination has not 
resulted or is not likely to result in any AAEC, does not absolve the 
Acquirer/ parties to the combination from filing the notice before the 
Commission. Unless and until the notice is filed with the Commission, 
the assessment of the combination in terms of Section 20 (4) of the Act 
cannot be completed.  
 
11.18 
The Commission in its order dated 09.06.2017 passed under Section 
43A of the Act, in Future Consumer Enterprise Limited, C-2016-03-
384, has held that: 
 
“The fact of approval of the combination on assessment that 
it does not raise any AAEC in India, based on analysis of 
various factors does not confer any immunity to the 
appellants from being penalized under Section 43A of the Act 
for failure to comply with the regulatory obligation (s) of the 
party (ies) under the Act. Moreover, the Act clearly provides, 
irrespective of whether there is any AAEC or not, mandatory 
regime for notifying a combination to the Commission.” 
 
11.19 
The issue relating to validity of penalty proceedings under Section 43A 
of the Act, when the transactions which were not notified, admittedly 
did not have AAEC, has also been considered by the erstwhile Hon’ble 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 23 of 28 
 
erstwhile CompAT, in the case of SCM Soilfert Limited and Others v. 
Competition Commission of India, (2016) Comp. L.R. 1111 (“SCM 
Case”), wherein it has been held that: 
 
“Sections 31 and 43A of the Act operate in two different fields. 
The Commission has the power to approve a combination under 
Section 31 and such approval neither obliterates nor condones 
the contravention, for which penalty is to be imposed under 
Section 43A. Approval under Section 31 is not even listed as a 
mitigating circumstance under Regulation 48 of the General 
Regulations which deals with the procedure for imposition of 
penalty. Accordingly, in our view Penalty under section 43A of 
the Act is leviable even if the combination has no appreciable 
adverse effect on competition”. 
 
11.20 
With regard to the contention of the Acquirer that transactions of 
similar nature reported in media were not notified to the Commission, 
the Commission notes that one of those transactions occurred prior to 
the notification of provisions of Sections 5 and 6 of the Act and in the 
other instances referred by the Acquirer, the target entities i.e. sellers 
seems to be exempt under the previous De Minimis Notifications. 
Notwithstanding above, non-filing of notice in those transactions does 
not absolve the Acquirer of its own obligation to notify Transaction 1 
and Transaction 2 to the Commission under Section 6 (2) of the Act.  
 
11.21 
The Acquirer further contended that by passing the order dated 
22.03.2017, the Commission has condoned the delay, if any, in filing of 
the notice. In this regard, the Commission notes that in its order dated 
22.03.2017 passed under Section 31 (1) of the Act, it has been 
specifically written in Para 12 that “This order is issued without 
prejudice to the proceedings under Section 43A of the Act.” The 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 24 of 28 
 
direction issued by the Commission dated 07.11.2016 to file notice in 
Form I was also issued without prejudice to the proceedings under 
Section 43A of the Act. Moreover, the Acquirer cannot take advantage 
of the proceedings initiated by the Commission to plead that by filing 
Form I as directed by the Commission, contravention, if any, on its part, 
has been condoned by the Commission. 
 
11.22 
As regards the contention of the Acquirer that it acted in a bona fide 
manner and there was no wilful failure, the Commission notes that in 
the instant case the Acquirer has not only delayed in filing a notice with 
the Commission but rather failed to file the notice with the 
Commission. In the event that the Commission would not have taken 
suo moto cognizance of the combination, it would have escaped the 
scrutiny of the Commission to determine whether the said combination 
has resulted in any AAEC in India. Accordingly, the Commission is of 
the opinion that failure on the part of the Acquirer was not merely 
technical but rather a substantive violation of the provisions of the Act. 
Hence, the judgments cited by the Acquirer do not apply to the present 
case. 
 
11.23 
The Hon’ble Supreme Court, in The Chairman, SEBI v. Shriram Mutual 
Fund and Another, (2006) 5 SCC 361, has held that:  
 
“…the penalty is attracted as soon as contravention of the 
statutory obligations as contemplated by the Act is 
established and, therefore, the intention of the parties 
committing such violation becomes immaterial. In other 
words, the breach of a civil obligation which attracts penalty 
under the provisions of an Act would immediately attract the 
levy of penalty irrespective of the fact whether the 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 25 of 28 
 
contravention was made by the defaulter with any guilty 
intention or not…” 
 
11.24 
The Acquirer also made certain averments with reference to the 
decision of the Commission in Sundaram Finance Limited (supra). In 
this regard, the Commission notes that the facts of the two cases are 
entirely different and accordingly, the principle laid down in that case is 
not applicable in the present matter, for two reasons. Firstly, in the case 
of Sundaram Finance Limited, the parties filed the notice voluntarily 
pursuant to the provisions of the Act, though after a delay of three 
months. However, , in the present matter, the Acquirer failed to give 
notice as per the provisions of the Act at the time of entering into a 
binding agreement and the notice was filed in response to a direction of 
the Commission. Secondly, the Acquirer is primarily relying on 
minority opinion, which does not have a binding force. 
 
12. 
The Commission also notes that in violation of Section 6 (2A) of the Act, the 
parties have given effect to the combination before the expiry of 210 days 
from the date of filing of the notice with the Commission or passing of an 
order by the Commission under Section 31 of the Act, whichever is earlier. In 
this regard, the Commission observes that vide its order dated 08.03.2016 
passed under Section 43A of the Act in Baxalta Incorporated C-2015-07-297, 
it has held that: 
 
“…the words “proposes” and “proposed” used in sub-section (2) 
of Section 6 have to be read in the context of sub-section (2A) of 
Section 6 (which suspends the consummation of the proposed 
combination for the period stated therein). Accordingly, till the 
expiry of the 210 days from the date of filing of the notice or the 
Commission has passed an order under Section 31 of the Act, 
whichever is earlier, a combination should remain a proposed 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 26 of 28 
 
combination and parties to the combination should not give effect 
to the combination. If the parties to the combination are allowed 
to give effect to the proposed combination either before filing of 
the notice with the Commission or after filing of the notice but 
before the expiry of the period given in sub-section (2A) of 
Section 6 of the Act, then it will tantamount to violation of sub-
section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. 
 
This view has been held by the Commission in other cases as well.  
 
13. 
Further, the Hon’ble erstwhile CompAT, while adjudicating the issue relating 
to ex-ante nature of notification under Section 6 (2) of the Act, in the SCM 
Case has observed: 
 
“The ex-ante nature of notification under Section 6 (2) is 
buttressed by a reading of Sec. 6 (2A) which deliberately 
used the phrase “no combination shall come into effect” 
until 210 days from date of notice, or passing of order 
under Sec. 31.” 
 
14. 
Further, the Hon’ble erstwhile CompAT, in the SCM Case, also pointed out 
why ex-ante notification is critical to the regulation of combinations. It 
observed: 
 
“It is essential that the Commission receive prior / ex-ante 
Notification of proposed combinations in order for it to effectively 
prevent anti-competitive acquisitions and mergers. A contrary 
reading of the Section so as to permit ex post facto notification 
would render the same nugatory. Unless the Commission has a 
chance to examine the anti-competitive effects of the proposed 
combination before it is consummated, it will lead to a scenario 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 27 of 28 
 
where an anti-competitive acquisition has already been given effect 
to thereby making unravelling of the transaction complex, or in 
some cases impossible where the acquisition of shares was done 
from the open market, as the sellers of the shares in such cases are 
anonymous and the shares.”  
 
            (emphasis supplied) 
 
15. 
Hence, based on the aforesaid observations of the Commission in Baxalta 
Incorporated and of the Hon’ble erstwhile CompAT in SCM Case, it is 
implied that a combined reading of the standstill obligations of the parties to a 
combination, as envisaged under Section 6 (2) and 6 (2A) of the Act, is 
considered as the cornerstone of ex-ante combination regulation. Therefore, 
consummating the combination, before filing notice or after filing notice but 
before the expiry of period specified under Section 6 (2A) of the Act, will 
violate the ex-ante nature of regulation of combinations in India.  
 
16. 
In view of the foregoing, the Commission is of the considered view that the 
Acquirer has contravened the provisions Section 6 (2) read with Section 6 
(2A) of the Act, which attracts penalty under Section 43A of the Act. Section 
43A of the Act reads as under: 
 
“If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the 
Commission under sub-section (2) of section 6, the Commission 
shall impose on such person or enterprise a penalty which may 
extend to one per cent of the total turnover or the assets, 
whichever is higher, of such a combination.” 
 
17. 
Accordingly, in terms of Section 43A of the Act, a maximum penalty of one 
per cent of the combined value of worldwide assets of the parties can be 
imposed. However, considering the totality of the facts of the case and the 
submissions made by the Acquirer, the Commission deems it appropriate to 
impose a penalty of Rs. 5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lacs Only) on the Acquirer. 

 
 
 
C-2017/02/485  
 
Page 28 of 28 
 
 
18. 
The Acquirer shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of 
receipt of this order. 
 
19. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Acquirer accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
