 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/10/531) 
 
 
Page 1 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
27.08.2018 
 
Notice given under Section 6(2) of the Competition Act, 2002 by  
Bharti Airtel Limited: Combination Regn. No. C-2017/10/531 
 
 
CORAM: 
Mr. Sudhir Mital 
Chairperson 
 
Mr. Augustine Peter 
Member 
 
Mr. U. C. Nahta 
Member 
 
Mr. G. P. Mittal 
Member 
 
Appearances during Oral hearing on 24.07.2018 for Bharti Airtel Limited: 
Mr. Amit Sibal, Senior Advocate, Ms Aditi Gopalakrishnan, Advocate,  Mr. Aakarsh Narula, 
Advocate, Mr. Nikhil Bahl, Advocate, Mr. Avinash Amarnath, Advocate, Mr. Sameer Chugh 
and Ms Nitya, Legal Counsels, Bharti Airtel Limited 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002  
 
A. 
Background 
 
1. 
On 16.10.2017, the Competition Commission of India (“Commission”) received a notice 
under Section 6(2) of the Competition Act, 2002 (“Act”), given by Bharti Airtel Limited 
(“Airtel”) relating to proposed acquisition of 100 percent of the consumer mobile business 
run by Tata Teleservices Limited (“TTSL”) and Tata Teleservices (Maharashtra) Limited 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/10/531) 
 
 
Page 2 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
(“TTML”) (“Tata CMB”) by Airtel (“Combination”/ “Transaction”). The notice was 
filed with the Commission pursuant to execution of a binding term sheet, by and between 
Airtel, TTSL, TTML and Tata Sons Limited on 12.10.2017 (“Acquisition Agreement”). 
On 16.11.2017, the Commission approved the Combination by passing an order under 
Section 31(1) of the Act (“Order”). However, the Order was passed without prejudice to 
any proceedings under Section 43A of the Act. 
 
B. 
Initiation of proceedings under Section 43A of the Act  
 
2. 
In terms of Section 6(2) of the Act, an enterprise, which proposes to enter into a combination, 
is required to give a notice to the Commission, disclosing the details of the proposed 
combination, within thirty days of the execution of any agreement or other document for 
acquisition. Further, as per Section 6(2A) of the Act, no combination shall come into effect 
until 210 days have passed from the day on which the notice has been given to the 
Commission under Section 6(2) or the Commission has passed order under Section 31 of the 
Act, whichever is earlier.  
 
3. 
During the review of the Combination, the Commission noted that the Acquisition 
Agreement contained the following clause (“ER Clause”), 
 
[…]  
4. 
The Commission observed that prima facie, such a clause […] may have the effect of the 
parties ceasing to act independently as the target would have no incentive to continue to 
compete as before. Further, […] may allow the acquirer to influence the affairs of the target 
leading to a situation which is similar to tacit collusion. 
 
5. 
Based on the aforesaid, the Commission formed a prima facie opinion that the ER Clause 
may have the impact of consummating a part of the Combination before the expiry of period 
specified under Section 6(2A) of the Act and by agreeing to the same, Airtel has failed to 
file notice in terms of Section 6(2) of the Act. Accordingly, a show cause notice was issued 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/10/531) 
 
 
Page 3 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
to Airtel on 13.12.2017 under Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the 
Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009 (“General Regulations”) 
(“SCN”). The SCN required Airtel to show cause, in writing, within 15 days of receipt of 
the same, as to why penalty, in terms of Section 43A of the Act, should not be imposed on 
it for failure to file notice of the Combination in accordance with Section 6(2) of the Act by 
consummating a part of the Combination before the expiry of period specified under Section 
6(2A) of the Act. Airtel filed its reply to the SCN on 28.12.2017 (“Response to SCN”) along 
with a request for oral hearing, in terms of Regulation 48 of the General Regulations. Airtel 
also provided certain additional information/document(s) vide emails dated 18.04.2018 and 
23.04.2018.  
 
6. 
In its meeting held on 14.06.2018, the Commission considered the Response to SCN and 
decided to grant an oral hearing to Airtel on 04.07.2018. However, vide letter dated 
29.06.2018, Airtel requested for adjournment in the matter. The Commission accepted the 
request of Airtel and granted a personal hearing on 24.07.2018. Accordingly, Airtel 
presented its case before the Commission on 24.07.2018. On the date of hearing, Airtel stated 
that the parties have entered into an Implementation Agreement to set out the manner of 
effecting the Transaction on 19.07.2018 and submitted an affidavit to explain its position in 
light of the Implementation Agreement. Further, the Commission also directed Airtel to 
provide certain information/document(s) in support of submissions made during the personal 
hearing. Airtel submitted such information/document(s) vide emails dated 07.08.2018 and 
27.08.2018. 
 
C. 
Submissions of Airtel 
 
7. 
In the Response to SCN and during oral submissions, Airtel contended the following: 
 
[…] 
 
7.1 
[…] 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/10/531) 
 
 
Page 4 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
7.2 
That typically, an appointed date or notional date […] is introduced in transaction 
agreements to ensure that parties have a definitive basis for computation of liabilities or 
assets from a particular date; and the computation thereof is not affected by other factors 
which are beyond the control of the Parties – such as regulatory approvals etc. Notional 
dates […], typically allow accounting adjustments on the date of closing; and the date 
from which such adjustments are computed, can itself not be considered the closing of 
a transaction unless and until the actual closing is achieved. 
 
7.3 
That the Transaction involves a number of regulatory approvals including inter alia 
approvals from the stock exchanges and approval of the National Company Law 
Tribunal (NCLT) and the Department of Telecommunications (DoT). Considering the 
said approvals, there is a fair bit of deal uncertainty. […] If the parties do not receive 
the required regulatory approvals, […] the ER Clause shall not come into effect. 
 
7.4 
That Clause 8 of the Acquisition Agreement subjected the entire Transaction to […] the 
approval of the Commission (Regulatory Approval Clause). That since the ER Clause 
itself is part of the key transaction terms set out in Clause 3, it is necessarily required to 
be read with Clause 8 of the Term Sheet. The Regulatory Approval Clause clearly 
demonstrates that the Transaction, including the ER Clause was subject to the 
Commission’s approval; and a contrary interpretation would not only be against the 
Parties’ intention in the Acquisition Agreement, but also established interpretation 
standards of the Supreme Court.  
 
[…] 
 
7.5 
[…]. Airtel confirms that it has not taken any steps to give effect to the ER Clause until 
receiving the Commission’s approval of the Transaction on 16.11.2017. 
 
7.6 
That consummation, by implication, implies taking such steps towards implementing a 
proposed transaction, as would have otherwise been taken subsequent to the approval. 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/10/531) 
 
 
Page 5 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
That is in effect, Section 6(2A) prohibits actual actions aimed towards implementation 
of a transaction (such as payment of consideration; consummation of parts of an inter-
connected transactions; consummating market-purchases inherently related to another 
notifiable transaction; depositing shares in an escrow account prior to the Commission’s 
approval, etc.) and the Commission has never found a contractual arrangement 
prescribing a notional date, which itself becomes effective subsequent to the 
Commission’s approval (or upon closing) as “giving effect” to a proposed combination.  
 
7.7 
That in this respect, the CADE Guidelines also has an indicative list of actions which 
could lead to consummation of a proposed transaction – such as a) transfer and/or 
usufruct of assets in general (including voting securities); b) exercise of voting right or 
relevant influence on the counterparty's activities (such as decisions regarding prices, 
customers, business/sales policy, planning, marketing strategies, interruption of 
investments, discontinuing of products and others); c) receipt of profits or other 
payments connected to the performance of the counterparty, etc. 
 
7.8 
That in view of the Commission’s decisional practice (and international guidance), 
Airtel has not taken any steps towards implementation of the ER Clause – i.e. has not 
taken over control, exchanged any competitively sensitive information, paid 
consideration, […] prior to receiving the Commission’s approval of the Transaction. 
 
Absent any consummation or “giving effect” to the ER Clause prior to the 
Commission’s approval, there is no question of tacit collusion, or reduction in Tata 
CMB’s incentive to compete  
 
7.9 
That the Commission has interpreted the effect of pre-approval integration in Hindustan 
Colas (Comb. Registration No. C-2015/08/299) in which the Commission indicated that 
pre-payment of price could distort competition by leading to a strategic advantage for 
the acquirer, reducing the incentive and will of ‘target’ to compete and becoming a basis 
to access the confidential information of the ‘target’ and the Commission found this to 
have the impact of creating a “tacit collusion” which could impede competition prior to 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/10/531) 
 
 
Page 6 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
closing. That similarly, in Baxalta/ Baxter (Comb. Regn. No. C-2015/07/297), the 
Commission found that parties had ceased to behave independently in the market before 
receiving the Commission’s approval. That even in other jurisdictions, the kinds of 
actions which are typically found to be in nature of premature integration and 
coordination are: acquisition of beneficial ownership; acquisition of operational control; 
sharing of competitively sensitive information on price, sales, etc.; exercise of voting 
rights; influencing the strategic decision making of the merging party contractually by 
virtue of clauses like non-compete, part payment of consideration, sharing of profits; 
interfering with the business of the other party by taking decisions on their behalf or 
influencing decisions over prices, consumers, customers, advertisement and marketing, 
business and sales policy; allocating customers/suppliers or development of joint 
strategies; appointment of directors on merging party’s board; integration of sales force; 
actual transfer of shares or assets; interrupting investments or sales by being influenced 
by the other merging party; indulging into any conduct or activity which cannot be 
reversed at a later time.  
 
7.10 
Therefore, based on the Commission’s practice and the standards followed by other 
antitrust jurisdictions -- a notional date […], confers no strategic advantage on Airtel, 
does not reduce Tata CMB’s incentive to complete, and does not form any basis to 
exchange confidential information prior to the Commission’s approval. In addition, the 
ER Clause had no impact on Tata CMB’s ability to compete effectively in the market.  
 
7.11 
That absent various regulatory approvals or due to the conditions of the Term Sheet not 
being met, there was a possibility that the Transaction may not be completed. In such 
case, Tata CMB’s indulgence in any risk-taking action (due to any reduced incentives 
to compete) would have been detrimental to Tata CMB’s interest. In such a scenario, 
Tata CMB would have compromised its own competitiveness in the market. That, as a 
matter of fact, there had been exchange of absolutely no competitively sensitive 
information or market intelligence between the Parties prior to receipt of the 
Commission’s approval of the Transaction which could have facilitated coordination 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/10/531) 
 
 
Page 7 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
between them. The Commission has also not relied on (or put Airtel to notice) with any 
evidence pertaining to this other than the ER Clause. 
 
7.12 
On the date of hearing, Airtel made reference to some of the terms of the Implementation 
Agreement as set out below: 
 
i. 
[…]; 
ii. 
[…].    
 
7.13 
Based on the aforesaid, Airtel has stated that […] 
 
D. 
Analysis and Findings of the Commission 
 
8. 
Before going into the examination of ER Clause for any violation of standstill obligations 
contained in Section 6(2A) of the Act read with Section 6(2) of the Act, it would be 
appropriate to understand the basic objective of standstill obligations contained in Section 
6(2A) of the Act. The basic objective of standstill obligations contained in Section 6(2A) of 
the Act is to ensure that the parties to a combination transaction compete as they were 
competing before the initiation of combination process till the time the transaction is 
reviewed for any appreciable adverse effect on competition (“AAEC”) and approved by the 
Commission. In other words, the standstill obligations essentially require that the parties 
carry on with their ordinary course activities completely independent of each other and to 
the fact of the combination transaction. The rationale behind such obligations is that if the 
parties stop competing as they were competing before, the resulting adverse effect on 
competition in the interim period cannot be restored even if the Commission based on its 
review decides that the transaction is likely to result in AAEC and therefore does not approve 
the same or approve with modifications i.e., even if the transaction is not consummated or 
at least not consummated in the form as originally envisaged by the parties. Accordingly, 
the basis of examination of a gun jumping contravention is whether the parties have ceased 
to compete as they were competing earlier or whether they have ceased to act independently 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/10/531) 
 
 
Page 8 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
as regards their ordinary course activities pursuant to the combination transaction. In this 
backdrop, the Commission examined the submissions of Airtel.   
 
9. 
The Commission noted […]. The observations of the Commission in this regard are as under. 
 
10. 
The Commission agrees that a notional date may be indeed required to ensure certainty in 
respect of valuation of a business and that further to ensure that the value of business is 
preserved, the acquirer of a business may also be permitted to impose customary standstill 
and interim arrangements on the target. However, it is incumbent on the acquirer to ensure 
that the form and scope of the aforesaid customary arrangements imposed by it on the target 
is inherent and proportionate to the objective of ensuring certainty in business valuation and 
preservation of the same and that such conditions do not violate standstill obligations as 
envisaged in the Act. Thus, merely stating that […] does not absolve Airtel of its obligations 
under the Act and thus the key question here is […] whether the ER Clause potentially 
violates standstill obligations as envisaged in the Act. In other words, the ER Clause needs 
to be examined for its effects on competition dynamics and the question of the same being 
notional or otherwise is not relevant to the findings of gun-jumping. However, 
notwithstanding the same, based on the observations recorded in following paragraphs, the 
Commission is of the opinion that […] was in fact not just a notional date.   
 
11. 
The Commission examined the ER Clause (along with relevant clauses of the 
Implementation Agreement) and noted that: 
 
(i) 
The ER Clause provided for […]; 
 
(ii) 
Clause […] of the Implementation Agreement, also referred to by Airtel, provides 
that,  
 
“[…]”; 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/10/531) 
 
 
Page 9 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
(iii) 
Clause […] of the Implementation Agreement, also referred to by Airtel provides 
that […].  
 
12. 
The Commission observed that as per Clause […] of the Implementation Agreement, the 
Parties have agreed that […]. This arrangement provides for a potential mechanism to 
exercise operational control on Tata CMB from the Agreed Date itself considering that cash 
is a flow variable which needs to be managed prospectively and cannot be managed 
retrospectively and any leakages etc. thereof during the interim period cannot be managed 
after consummation of the Combination.  Thus, for all intent and purposes, the submissions 
of Airtel that […] are contradictory to Clause […] of the Implementation Agreement and the 
ER Clause seems to come into effect right on the […] thereby implying that […] was not 
akin to a “notional date” as claimed.   
 
13. 
As regards the submissions of Airtel that the Regulatory Approval Clause demonstrates that 
the Transaction including the ER Clause was subject to the Commission’s approval, the 
Commission observed that the SCN does not allege consummation of the Transaction, it only 
alleges consummation of a part of Transaction which has to be examined independently of 
the consummation of the Transaction. The Commission in an order dated 12.03.2018 passed 
under Section 43A of the Act in Ultratech/JAL (Combination Regn. No. C-2015/02/246) 
observed that, 
 
“…there are many aspects of a combination transaction that may require parallel activities on 
the part of the parties to a combination, the objective of standstill obligations is to ensure that 
the parties remain as independent competitors as they were before the proposed transaction. 
Accordingly, all the activities/actions which may reduce or have the potential to reduce the 
degree of independence or the incentives of the parties to compete may be considered to be in 
contravention of Section 6(2A) of the Act. It is important to note that whether or not a particular 
conduct of the parties can be regarded as gun jumping in contravention of Section 6(2A) of the 
Act is a subject matter of examination as consummating a part of a combination may, in 
substance, have impact similar to consummation of the combination itself. In view of the 
aforesaid, the interpretation of the Acquirer as regards scope of Section 6(2A) of the Act is not 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/10/531) 
 
 
Page 10 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
tenable and the Commission is of the opinion that the observations regarding ex-ante notification 
requirement and standstill obligations apply both to consummation of a proposed combination 
or any part thereof.” 
 
14. 
Notwithstanding the aforesaid observations on […] not being akin to a notional date, the 
Commission is of the opinion that even if […] was actually akin to a notional date […], the 
ER Clause would still be in contravention of standstill obligations contained in the Act for 
its likelihood of causing competition distortions as detailed in subsequent paragraphs.     
 
15. 
The Commission, in its order dated 14.09.2016 in Combination Reg. No. C-2015/08/299 (In 
Re: Hindustan Colas Private Limited), passed under Section 43A of the Act, brought out 
some of the competition distorting effects which are significant for determining gun 
jumping. The Commission observed that, 
 
“…pre-payment of price (whether refundable/non-refundable) may have a number of 
competition distorting effects viz., (i) it may lead to a strategic advantage for the Acquirer; 
(ii) it may reduce the incentive and will of ‘target’ to compete; and (iii) it may become a 
reason/basis to access the confidential information of the ‘target’.” 
 
16. 
Combined reading of Clause […] and […] of the Implementation Agreement clearly bring 
out the lack of incentive of Tata CMB to compete with Airtel from […] itself, i.e., before the 
Commission had approved the Combination. Clause […] and […] of the Implementation 
Agreement provide for an arrangement […]. This type of arrangement, by its form itself, is 
bound to disincentive the target from competing as it was competing before execution of 
definitive agreement for the combination. Further, agreeing on […] implies infringing with 
the ordinary course business activities of the target and cannot be considered as inherent and 
proportionate to the objective of preserving the business valuation. Considering that such 
date fell in a period prior to the approval of the Combination by the Commission, it amounts 
to contravention of standstill obligations as contained in Section 6(2A) of the Act. 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/10/531) 
 
 
Page 11 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
17. 
Airtel in its submissions has given emphasis on relevance of “action” or “steps taken” for 
determining “giving effect” to a transaction or any part thereof. It has been stated that Section 
6(2A) only prohibits actual actions aimed towards implementation of a transaction. In this 
regard, Airtel has made reference to the aforesaid decision of the Commission in Hindustan 
Colas giving emphasis on the “action” in that case i.e., pre-payment of price and to various 
“actions” typically found to be in nature of premature integration in other jurisdictions. 
 
18. 
The Commission is of the opinion that Airtel has incorrectly interpreted the decision of the 
Commission in Hindustan Colas wherein pre-payment of consideration was held to be the 
tool of gun jumping which was examined for potential to cause competition distortions. The 
Commission is of the opinion that considering the substantive issue in gun jumping is the 
effect on competition dynamics, no distinction is required to be made between “actual 
actions” and “agreed contractual obligations” or any other arrangement that potentially 
affects competition dynamics and violate the standstill obligations. The issues of gun 
jumping are highly specific to the facts of the case and a broad generalisation as made by 
Airtel emphasising “action” is not correct. 
 
19. 
The aforesaid view of the Commission is also consistent with the international guidance on 
the issue of gun jumping. While Airtel selectively pointed out to an indicative list of 
“actions” considered as potentially leading to gun jumping in CADE Guidelines to 
emphasise the importance of conduct, it missed the fact that the same CADE Guidelines also 
point to certain contractual provisions as connected to competitively sensitive activities and 
leading to premature integration of the activities of merging parties such as: 
a) no anteriority clause related to the term of effectiveness of the contract in relation to the 
date of its execution that brings any integration among parties; and 
 
b) clauses allowing direct interference by any party in the other party's business strategies 
by submitting, for example, decisions over prices, customers, business/sales policy, 
planning, marketing strategies and other sensitive decisions (that do not constitute a 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/10/531) 
 
 
Page 12 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
mere protection against deviation from the normal course of business and, consequently, 
the protection of the value of the business being sold). 
20. 
The ER Clause is clearly in the nature of an anteriority clause as it envisages […] from a 
date prior to the approval of the said Transaction by the Commission. Further, as detailed in 
Clause […] of the Implementation Agreement, Airtel is allowed to […] which implies 
Airtel’s direct interference in ordinary course activities of Tata CMB. In this regard, when 
specifically asked to comment on the application of anteriority clause during the hearing, 
Airtel submitted that […]. 
 
21. 
As stated above, the Commission while dealing with the distinction sought between 
refundable/non-refundable advance consideration in Hindustan Colas, focussed on the 
potential competition distortions to conclude that advance payment (whether 
refundable/non-refundable) may have competition distorting effects. The Commission noted 
in Hindustan Colas that, 
 
“the distinction between refundable and non-refundable may have some merit in assessing 
the likelihood of reversion to the status quo ante in form, it may not be relevant from the 
perspective of potential competition distortions”  
 
The view of the Commission was based on the fact that if the merger is not consummated 
and advance paid is indeed refunded, the fact of such payment may have already led to the 
two parties not acting independently and subsequent refund cannot restore the loss of 
competition in the interim period. Going by the same reasoning, the Commission is of the 
opinion that even if the submissions of Airtel that […] are accepted, the same does not 
assuage the concerns of ER Clause leading to potential competition distortions. It may be 
noted that these findings of the Commission are strictly based on the scope of the ER Clause 
corroborated with the provisions of Implementation Agreement and not on concept of 
Appointed Date in general.  
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/10/531) 
 
 
Page 13 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
22. 
The aforesaid opinion of the Commission is also in sync with international decisional 
practices in this regard. In United States of America v. Atlantic Richfield Company and 
Others (Civil Action No. 910205, United States District Court for the District of the District 
of Columbia), ARCO Chemical and Union Carbide Chemicals entered into an acquisition 
agreement on 27.09.1989 and under the terms of acquisition agreement, inter alia, ARCO 
Chemicals was required to cover liabilities from the continued operation of the Union 
Carbide Assets after 27.09.1989. By an adjustment mechanism in the acquisition agreement, 
the purchase price was to increase at closing if Union Carbide Chemicals incurred a negative 
net cash from Union Carbide Assets and would be decreased if Union Carbide Chemicals 
realized a positive net cash flow. The United States Federal Trade Commission filed a 
complaint alleging violation of standstill obligations contained in the Clayton Act, 
commonly known as the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (“HSR 
Act”) considering the aforesaid arrangement together with other arrangements had the effect, 
upon execution, of transferring beneficial ownership of the Union Carbide assets to ARCO 
Chemical so that ARCO Chemical and its parent, Atlantic Richfield Company, acquired 
those assets on 27.09.1989. The court held the same to be in violation of the HSR Act. […]  
 
23. 
Airtel has also submitted that the Transaction involved a number of regulatory approvals and 
considering the said approvals, there is a fair bit of deal uncertainty and due to the same, 
[…]. As stated above, the basic objective of standstill obligations is to maintain competition 
in the interim period. Accordingly, even if the Transaction was not to go through ultimately 
and the ER Clause did not come into effect, the same would be in contravention of standstill 
obligations for the potential adverse effect on competition caused in the interim period. Airtel 
has submitted that Tata CMB’s indulgence in any risk-taking action (due to any reduced 
incentives to compete) during the interim period would have been detrimental to Tata CMB’s 
interest. In this regard, the Commission observed that the exact incentives for entering into 
any agreement are best known to the parties and the Commission can only be guided by the 
nature/scope of agreement and information on record. Further, all the combination 
transactions have a number of conditions to be fulfilled before consummation which implies 
theoretically there is uncertainty in all the transactions. If a conclusion is drawn that such 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/10/531) 
 
 
Page 14 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
uncertainty implies that the parties will not be incentivized to coordinate their behaviour in 
the interim period, it would mean and imply end of the very concept of gun jumping. The 
Parties have themselves agreed that certain steps such as pre-payment of consideration etc., 
can be considered as gun jumping. Even such cases are characterized by uncertainty of non-
consummation and the only reason for considering such conduct as gun jumping is the 
likelihood of potential competition distortions and the same is equally applicable to the 
present case where a contractual obligation can be a source of potential competition 
distortions. 
 
24. 
Based on the nature/scope of ER Clause read with Clause […] and Clause […] of the 
Implementation Agreement, the Commission is of the opinion that the ER Clause by itself 
amounts to consummating a part of the Combination before the approval of the same by the 
Commission and by agreeing to the same Airtel has failed to file notice for the Combination 
in accordance with Section 6(2) of the Act. Accordingly it attracts penalty under Section 
43A of the Act, which reads as under:  
 
“If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission under sub section(2) 
of section 6, the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a penalty which may 
extend to one percent of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, of such a 
combination.”  
 
25. 
In terms of Section 43A of the Act, the Commission can levy a maximum penalty of one per 
cent of the combined value of the worldwide turnover of the parties. However, the 
Commission has sufficient discretion to consider the conduct of the parties and the 
circumstances of the case to arrive at the appropriate amount of penalty. Accordingly, in 
context of the Combination, while determining the quantum of penalty, the Commission 
considered the period over which the contravention continued (16 days since the 
Commission approved the Combination on 16.11.2018) as a mitigating factor. In view of the 
foregoing, the Commission considers it appropriate to impose a nominal penalty of INR 
10,00,000/- (INR Ten Lakhs only) on Airtel. 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/10/531) 
 
 
Page 15 of 15 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
26. 
Airtel shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of this order. 
 
27. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to Airtel accordingly. 
 
 
 
