 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 1 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
11.05.2018 
 
Notice given by Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited pursuant to an inquiry under Section 20(1) 
of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
CORAM: 
 
Mr. Devender Kumar Sikri 
Chairperson 
 
Mr. Sudhir Mital 
Member 
 
Mr. Augustine Peter 
Member 
 
Mr. U. C. Nahta 
Member 
 
Mr. G. P. Mittal 
Member 
 
Appearances during Oral hearing on 30.01.2018 for Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited: 
Mr. Amit Sibal, Sr. Advocate, Mr P. Ram Kumar, Advocate, Ms. Dinoo Muthappa, Advocate, Mr. 
Dhruv Rajan, Advocate, Mr. Aditya Gupta, Advocate, Mr. R. Venkatkrisnan, General Counsel, 
Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, Ms. Shelly Saluja, Senior Manager, Reliance Jio Infocomm 
Limited 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002  
 
A. Section 20(1) Proceedings and filing of notice 
 
1. 
The Competition Commission of India (“Commission”), in its meeting held on 20.06.2016, 
took suo motu cognizance of transaction involving acquisition of right to use of spectrum by 
Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited (“RJIO”/ “Acquirer”) from Reliance Communications 
Limited (“RCOM”) pursuant to guidelines for trading of access spectrum (“Spectrum 
Trading Guidelines”) issued by the Department of Telecommunication (“DoT”), 
Government of India and decided to initiate an inquiry under Section 20(1) of the 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 2 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Competition Act, 2002 (“Act”) in the above-said transaction. Vide letter dated 30.06.2016, 
RJIO was directed to provide, inter alia, copy(ies) of definitive agreement(s) entered 
between the parties to the transaction, details of assets/turnover of the parties etc. 
 
2. 
RJIO submitted the requisite information/document(s) on 12.08.2016 and made certain 
additional voluntary submissions on 19.09.2016 and 24.11.2016. The Commission 
considered the response filed by RJIO and noted that based on the combined assets and 
turnover of RJIO and RCOM, the notification thresholds under Section 5(a) of the Act are 
met. Further, the Commission noted that acquisition of spectrum: (i) is an “acquisition” 
within the meaning of the Act; and (ii) does not fall under any item under Schedule I to the 
Competition Commission of India (Procedure in regard to the transaction of business relating 
to combinations) Regulations, 2011 (“Combination Regulations”). Accordingly, vide letter 
dated 12.04.2017, the Commission directed RJIO to file notice in Form I for the above-said 
transaction in terms of Section 20(1) of the Act read with Regulation 8 of the  Combination 
Regulations (“Section 20(1) Directions”).  
 
3. 
Pursuant to the Section 20(1) Directions, on 07.06.2017, RJIO filed a notice for acquisition, 
in 800 MHz frequency band, of (i) right to use of certain spectrum; and (ii) option to acquire 
right to use of certain spectrum, from RCOM and Reliance Telecom Limited (“RTL”). For 
the purpose of the transaction, following agreements have been entered into by RJIO: 
 
i. Spectrum Trading Agreement dated 18.01.2016 with RCOM (“Trading Agreement”) 
for acquisition of (i) 3.75 MHz spectrum each in telecom circles of Andhra Pradesh, 
Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Punjab, and West Bengal; (ii) 5 MHz spectrum each in 
telecom circles of Kolkata and Uttar Pradesh (West); and (iii) 1.25 MHz spectrum in 
Uttar Pradesh (East);  
ii. Option Agreement dated 18.01.2016 with RCOM (“RCOM Option Agreement”) for 
acquisition of: […]; and  
iii. Option Agreement dated 18.01.2016 with RTL (“RTL Option Agreement”) for 
acquisition of […].  

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 3 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
(The transactions contemplated under the Trading Agreement, RCOM Option Agreement 
and RTL Option Agreement are together referred to as the “Spectrum Transaction”) 
 
4. 
The right to use spectrum, being subject matter of the Trading Agreement, was transferred 
with effect from 17.05.2016 pursuant to the approval of the DoT. On 23.05.2016, RJIO 
exercised its option to acquire the right to use a part of spectrum being subject matter of 
RCOM Option Agreement (i.e. 3.75 MHz in Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu and 2.50 
MHz in Rajasthan). On 06.07.2016, the DoT changed the allotment of the right to use this 
spectrum from RCOM to RJIO.  
B. Approval of the Combination and Section 43A proceedings 
 
5. 
The Commission, in its meeting held on 08.08.2017, approved the Spectrum Transaction by 
passing an order under Section 31(1) of the Act dated 03.10.2017 (“Order”) without 
prejudice to any penalty proceedings under Section 43A of the Act. In terms of Section 43A 
of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India (General) 
Regulations, 2009 (“General Regulations”), a show cause notice (“SCN”) dated 
02.11.2017 was issued to RJIO to show cause, in writing, within 15 days of the receipt of 
SCN as to why penalty, in terms of Section 43A of the Act should not be imposed on it for 
failure to file notice for the Spectrum Transaction within the stipulated time under the 
provisions of the Act and consummating the Spectrum Transaction before expiry of timelines 
as provided in Section 6(2A) of the Act. The Acquirer filed its response to the SCN 
(“Response”) on 21.11.2017 along with a request for oral hearing, in terms of Regulation 
48 of the General Regulations.  
 
6. 
The Commission, in its meeting held on 22.01.2018, considered the Response and granted a 
personal hearing to the Acquirer on 30.01.2018. Accordingly, the Acquirer presented its case 
before the Commission on 30.01.2018. Pursuant to the personal hearing, the Acquirer filed 
further written submissions on 05.02.2018 (“Additional Submissions”). 
 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 4 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C. Submissions of the Acquirer 
 
7. 
In the Response to SCN, oral hearing and the Additional Submissions, RJIO has, inter-alia, 
made the following submissions: 
Spectrum Transaction does not amount to an “acquisition” 
7.1 
That the intention behind requiring the notification of acquisition of assets is to ensure that 
acquisitions of businesses/divisions/units/portions of an enterprise, which by themselves do 
not constitute an “enterprise” are reviewed by the Commission when such acquisitions have 
an effect on the market. In this case, if RJIO acquired subscribers, suppliers, towers etc., of 
RCOM/RTL, the acquisition of such assets as a going concern, would require notification to 
the Commission. The transfer of a mere right to use spectrum from one enterprise to another, 
however, does not envisage acquisition of assets as a going concern. 
 
7.2 
That in addition, the cases involving acquisition of intangible assets such as 
trademarks/intellectual property rights may merit merger control review where transfer of 
goodwill is also involved as the overall effect of such acquisitions would facilitate an 
inevitable transfer of business to the acquirer. In this case, spectrum has no goodwill or 
customer loyalty and therefore transfer of spectrum with no other interests of RCOM/RTL 
should not be considered as an asset acquisition falling under scope of Section 5 of the Act. 
 
7.3 
That the other jurisdictions also assess whether assets can constitute a business/have market 
facing presence or turnover for determining whether such asset acquisitions constitute a 
notifiable transaction for merger review. Absent any acquisition of customers, contracts, 
subscriptions or other essentials of a telecom business, the acquisition of spectrum would 
not constitute business having market presence or market turnover. 
 
7.4 
That RJIO has not acquired any ownership of assets or title to spectrum from RCOM/RTL. 
The Government of India continues to retain ownership of spectrum and therefore the 
transfer of right to use (as opposed to transfer of ownership) cannot amount to “acquisition”. 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 5 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
A licence does not create in the licensee’s favour any estate or interest in the property and is 
revocable at the instance of the licensor.   
 
7.5 
That spectrum has been routinely allocated through auctions conducted by the Government 
of India and if the Commission were to take the view that acquisition of right to use spectrum 
amounts to a combination under the Act, every instance of such auction of spectrum to each 
telecom service provider (“TSP”) in India would amount to a notifiable combination. To the 
best of RJIO’s knowledge, there has not been a single instance of auction that has been held 
to be a combination and notified to the Commission. Accordingly, if there was no 
requirement to file a notice under the Act at the time of allocation of spectrum through 
auction, the transfer of right to use between TSPs for the same spectrum would also not be 
required to be notified under the Act.  
 
7.6 
Based on the aforesaid, the Spectrum Transaction, does not amount to acquisition of assets 
under Section 5, and accordingly does not fall under the jurisdiction of the Commission.    
Jurisdiction of the Commission 
7.7 
That without prejudice to the argument that Spectrum Transaction does not amount to an 
asset acquisition under the Act, the acquisition of right to use spectrum being regulated by 
sectoral authorities having exercised regulatory review over such acquisitions, would imply 
the ouster of jurisdiction of the Commission. 
 
7.8 
That the telecom sector is regulated by the DoT and Telecom Regulatory Authority of India 
(“TRAI”). The Government of India regulates the allotment and use of spectrum through its 
licensing and other norms. The sectoral regulator i.e. TRAI makes recommendations with 
respect to the use and allocation of spectrum to the Government of India/DoT. On 
12.10.2015, the DoT issued the Spectrum Trading Guidelines to permit and regulate trading 
of spectrum to enable optimum use of spectrum. The TRAI along with the DoT regulates 
and controls the various terms of price and conditions of sale of spectrum in this sector and 
on various occasions intervenes by way of consultation and framing regulations and issuing 
clarifications from time to time. As a result of the regulatory framework, the TSPs are 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 6 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
subjected to regulations governing various aspects of their functioning including applying 
the spectrum, pricing and market share caps. Any acquisition or trading of spectrum, mergers 
of various TSPs are also regulated by the DoT and cannot be closed without prior approval 
of the DoT. The maximum quantum of spectrum holding in a particular band and across all 
bands for any TSP is also regulated by the DoT. The Spectrum Trading Guidelines require 
TSPs to ensure that their spectrum holding does not exceed: (i) a cap of 25% of all spectrum 
in a licensed service area; and (ii) 50% of spectrum in a particular band in a licensed service 
area (“Spectrum Caps”). 
 
7.9 
That the Spectrum Trading Guidelines already contain safeguards for protection of 
competition by imposing restrictions on concentration of spectrum held by TSPs. That the 
ex ante competition review of spectrum acquisition (by imposing Spectrum Caps) would 
amount to implied exclusion of the Commission’s jurisdiction. 
 
7.10 That the allocation/buying/selling/sharing of spectrum as a result of this framework is the 
exclusive domain of the TRAI and the DoT. To the extent that until the Spectrum Trading 
and Spectrum Sharing guidelines were not introduced the TSPs could not have entered into 
the agreements to trade or share the spectrums at all. 
 
7.11 That the TRAI and DoT in their wisdom and ongoing regulatory oversight have permitted 
TSPs to carry out trading and sharing of spectrum as long as the TSP does not breach the 
specified caps i.e. the TSPs can consummate such transfers within the specified caps without 
any intervention/examination on the merits of the transaction from the sector regulators. For 
clarity, for any round of trading and/or sharing, the TSP need to intimate the DoT by a formal 
communication including a cover letter, along with the details of the frequency to be traded 
(quantum/band), band of spectrum, circle/ LSA, price/value, details of other spectrum 
holding in the same band/circle. DoT takes up to 45 calendar days to take the transaction on 
record. This process is only limited to extent that the details of the spectrum are changed in 
the records of the DoT and does not entail a scrutiny of the transaction. 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 7 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
7.12 Based on the aforesaid, the examination of the Spectrum Transaction by the Commission 
results in a complete conflict qua spectrum between the Commission and the TRAI and the 
DoT.  
 
7.13 That it concedes and submits to the jurisdiction of the Commission to inquire into and 
prohibit anti-competitive practices and regulate mergers and acquisitions in the telecom 
market (along with TRAI and DoT). However, in relation to acquisition/trading and 
consequent concentration or market power in spectrum holding, there would be a limited and 
implied ouster of the Commission’s jurisdiction as the regulation and governance of this area 
is occupied by TRAI and DoT. In Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC v. Glen Billing LLC 
(551 U.S. 264), the US Supreme Court set out the following test to determine whether there 
is a conflict between the exercise of antitrust jurisdiction and sectoral regulation: 
i. 
Existence of regulatory authority under the sectoral regime to supervise the activities 
in question: In India, the acquisition of spectrum is regulated by DoT in accordance 
with the Spectrum Trading Guidelines; 
ii. 
Evidence that the responsible regulatory authorities exercise that authority: The 
acquirer of spectrum must mandatorily obtain DoT approval for transfer of allotment 
of spectrum; 
iii. 
Resulting risk that sectoral and antitrust regime will, if both applicable, produce 
conflicting guidance and requirements: The jurisdiction of the Commission may lead 
to a clear conflict and incompatibility between competition law and telecom 
laws/regulations in India. In cases of risk of conflicting guidance, it would also be 
difficult for antitrust authorities to evaluate highly technical issues which fall within 
the purview of sector regulators; and 
iv. 
Whether the issue involves an area falling squarely within the heartland of sectoral 
regulation: The Spectrum Trading Guidelines provide for ex ante competition review 
of spectrum acquisition by imposing Spectrum Caps and are aimed at utilizing 
under/unutilized spectrum ensuring greater competition, providing incentives for 
innovation etc. Thus, competition in spectrum acquisitions would lie squarely within 
activity that the Spectrum Trading Guidelines seek to regulate. 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 8 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
7.14 That the Spectrum Trading Guidelines set out a self-contained comprehensive framework 
vesting the DoT to ex ante regulate competition in the market for spectrum. Since the 
legislature has specifically made the DoT responsible to address competition in spectrum 
holding, it has implicitly endorsed deference to the Spectrum Trading Guidelines. 
Accordingly, there is an implied immunity from the Act and an exclusion of merger review 
jurisdiction of the Commission in the matters of spectrum trading. 
Spectrum Transaction was covered under Item 3 of Schedule I of the Combination 
Regulations and exempt from notification 
7.15 That the Commission should not have taken cognizance of the Spectrum Transaction under 
the provisions of the Act given the exemption granted under Schedule I, Item 3 read with 
Regulation 4 of the Combination Regulations. 
 
7.16 Item 3 of Schedule I of the Combination Regulations, reads thus: 
 
“An acquisition of assets, referred to in sub- clause (i) or sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of 
section 5 of the Act, not directly related to the business activity of the party acquiring the 
asset or made solely as an investment or in the ordinary course of business, not leading to 
control of the enterprise whose assets are being acquired except where the assets being 
acquired represent substantial business operations in a particular location or for a 
particular product or service of the enterprise, of which assets are being acquired, 
irrespective of whether such assets are organized as a separate legal entity or not.”  
 
Spectrum acquired by RJIO is in ordinary course of business 
 
7.17 That Spectrum is a basic and essential ingredient required for providing wireless 
telecommunication services and every TSP must obtain the right to use spectrum from time 
to time with addition of subscribers to its customer base to be able to provide 
telecommunication services and maintain continuity of its business and services. The right 
to use spectrum can be acquired either from the Government which auctions this right to use 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 9 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
spectrum from time to time (since 2010) or from another TSP (since October 2015) when 
the DoT permitted and issued guidelines for trading of spectrum between TSPs.  
 
7.18 Most TSPs have participated in all the auctions for right to use spectrum conducted by the 
Government of India. Further, as per media reports, 3 acquisitions of right to use spectrum 
through the trading route have been undertaken in the past such as the acquisition of spectrum 
by Bharti Airtel Limited from Aircel Limited, Telenor and Videocon Limited. Further, the 
acquisition of spectrum by Bharti from Aircel took place around the same time as the 
Spectrum Transaction and to the best of our knowledge, some of these transactions were not 
notified within the 30 calendar days of execution of the binding agreements. This highlights 
the belief of the TSPs that transactions of this nature related to spectrum form part of the 
“ordinary course of business” of a TSP. 
 
7.19 That RJIO itself has acquired the right to use spectrum from time to time. It acquired right 
to use spectrum in the auctions conducted by the DoT in 2010, 2014, 2015 and 2016, in 
addition to entering into the Spectrum Transaction. If the Commission deems every such 
acquisition of the right to use spectrum as a notifiable transaction, then it implies that all 
TSPs are required to notify the Commission at the time of acquiring spectrum during each 
auction of spectrum by the Government of India as well. 
 
7.20 That the Memorandum of Association of RJIO, inter alia, provide that mobile telephony 
services using spectrum to provide such services is part of RJIO’s main objects. 
 
7.21 That for the above reasons, trading of spectrum is an activity in the normal course of business 
for all TSPs as permitted by the DoT. The Government recognizes spectrum as an intangible 
asset and provides flexibility to TSPs to trade and share spectrum during the ordinary course 
of business. 
 
7.22 That Courts in India have relied on factors such as historical practices of the entity, common 
industry practices and whether the transaction relates to the main purpose of business such 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 10 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
as those listed in the company’s charter documents to decide on what constitutes “ordinary 
course of business”. Considering that: (i) RJIO has participated in auctions for spectrum in 
2014 and 2016; (ii) other TSPs have routinely bid for spectrum in auctions and have also 
traded spectrum; and (iii) the acquisition of spectrum is directly related to the provision of 
telecom services, the Spectrum Transaction is in ordinary course of business of RJIO.  
 
Acquired spectrum under the Spectrum Transaction does not represent “substantial business 
operations” of either RCOM or RTL 
 
7.23 The business operations of a TSP consist of numerous components including, licenses, 
infrastructure (cables, fiber, towers, equipment, spectrum, office space etc.) and contracts 
relating to the same, personnel and manpower etc. Pursuant to the Spectrum Transaction, 
RJIO acquired only the bare right to use certain portion of the spectrum that was available 
with RCOM / RTL and RJIO has not acquired any part of the business operations of RCOM 
or RTL. Importantly, spectrum by itself cannot provide telecom services and it is one of the 
many essential ingredients required for provision of telecom services. Accordingly, 
spectrum itself cannot amount to “business operations” of RCOM. Further, acquisition of 
mere spectrum cannot be said to constitute a “substantial” portion of business operations of 
RCOM/RTL.  
 
7.24 Notwithstanding the above, if spectrum alone were held to amount to “business operations”, 
the quantum of spectrum acquired would not amount to substantial business operations. The 
spectrum in respect of which the right to use has been transferred to RJIO represents only 
approx. 18% of the total spectrum holding of RCOM/RTL. Even on a circle wise basis, RJIO 
has not acquired spectrum which represents substantial business operations of RCOM/RTL 
in any circle. 
 
7.25 That RJIO has not acquired any customers or contracts whatsoever of RCOM/RTL pursuant 
to the Spectrum Transaction. There is no provision whatsoever for customers of RCOM or 
RTL to be transferred to RJIO under the Spectrum Transaction documents. In fact, RJIO and 
RCOM/RTL actively compete as far as business operations are concerned. In fact, RCOM’s 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 11 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
CDMA customers could not have been acquired by RJIO as at the time of the Spectrum 
Transaction closing and at the time RCOM ceased its CDMA operations, RJIO was yet to 
commence its telecommunications operations. The customers of RCOM/RTL continued to 
remain RCOM’s/RTL’s customers even if RCOM/RTL shared the spectrum used to service 
them with RJIO. Such sharing agreements are similar to roaming agreements between TSPs 
whereby a TSP without network in a particular area enters into an agreement with another 
TSP who possesses network in that area which would allow its customers to roam on the 
others’ network in that area while remaining customers of the original service provider. Also, 
subsequent to the Spectrum Transaction, RCOM continued to hold spectrum in 800 MHz 
band in 22 circles in India and continued to service such customers. The spectrum remaining 
with RCOM/RTL was more than adequate to serve their customers. Thus, there was no 
acquisition of any portion, leave alone a substantial portion, of RCOM/RTL’s business 
operations. 
 
Transaction does not lead to acquisition control of RCOM or RTL (the enterprises whose 
assets were acquired) 
 
7.26 That RJIO acquired no rights in either the management or affairs of RCOM or RTL, pursuant 
to the Spectrum Transaction. At the time of Spectrum Transaction and thereafter, RJIO and 
RCOM/RTL continued to operate as independent entities. 
 
Narrow interpretation of the Item 3 exemption would make several small spectrum trading 
deals notifiable 
 
7.27 The Spectrum Trading Guidelines provide for spectrum trading deals even for small volumes 
such as 0.2 MHz and thus, if the Commission finds that the exemption would not apply to 
facts of the present transaction, then all spectrum trading deals irrespective of their size 
would end up requiring notification to the Commission unnecessarily flooding the 
Commission with notifications regarding routine transactions that have no impact on 
competition. 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 12 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
Section 43A does not envisage a penalty for failure to comply with Section 6(2A) 
 
7.28 That the omission of any reference to Section 6(2A) under Section 43A of the Act must be 
interpreted to imply that there is no specific, explicit or express provision for penalty 
provision for violation of Section 6(2A) of the Act.  
 
7.29 That the legislature, in its wisdom, did not intend to impose a penalty once Section 6(2) was 
complied with. Instead, the protection offered by the Act to violations of Section 6(2A) 
where parties consummate the combination, is that combinations causing or likely to cause 
AAEC may be held as void and unscrambled by the Commission, under Section 6(1) read 
with Section 31(2) of the Act. The purpose of Section 6(2)(a) is to ensure that a notification 
is made for the scrutiny of the Commission – where non-compliance with Section 6(2)(a) 
occurs, penalty under Section 43A may be imposed. However, once a notice has been filed 
and Section 6(2)(a) is complied with, the penalty provision under Section 43A cannot be 
invoked to cover violations of Section 6(2A) of the Act. Importantly, penalizing provision 
i.e. Section 43A of the Act was brought under the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007, 
which also introduced the standstill obligations under Section 6(2A). The deliberate 
omission of an explicit and specific reference to Section 6(2A) under Section 43A of the Act 
implies the specific exclusion of the Commission’s powers to impose penalties for violations 
of Section 6(2A) of the Act.  
 
Mitigating factors 
 
7.30 
That without prejudice to the above, in the event the Commission were to find RJIO in 
violation of the Act, the Spectrum Transaction is a fit case for no imposition of penalty 
considering, inter alia: 
i. 
Uncertain question of law: Spectrum trading was introduced in India only in 2015 
and the Spectrum Transaction was one of the first instances of spectrum trading 
in India. Unlike other cases of acquisition of intangible assets on a stand-alone 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 13 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
basis notified to the Commission, there is no acquisition of ownership of assets or 
transfer of any business presence in this case. Accordingly, there was significant 
uncertainty as regards notification requirement under the Act (and RJIO had 
obtained due and adequate legal advice in this regard). That the present 
proceedings involve a novel question of law. Given further uncertainty as to 
whether right to use of spectrum would qualify for exemption under Item 3 of 
Schedule I, the Commission may take a lenient view; 
ii. 
No mala fide intention to evade law: That the failure to notify was unintentional 
as RJIO was under the bona fide belief that the Spectrum Transaction was not 
notifiable. RJIO obtained legal advice from two retired Hon’ble Judges of the 
Supreme Court of India prior to consummation of the Spectrum Transaction.  Both 
the Hon’ble Judges were of the view that the Spectrum Transaction is covered 
under Item 3 of Schedule I and is exempt; 
iii. 
Spectrum Transaction would not be notifiable under applicable merger control 
today: If the Spectrum Transaction were to take place today, the value of turnover 
derived from RCOM’s ideal spectrum would be de-minimis i.e., no revenue can 
be ascribed to the acquired spectrum as it represents a surplus and unutilized asset 
for RCOM/RTL; 
iv. 
No deterrent effect required in this case: That given the change in regulatory 
position, uncertainty of law, lack of mala fides, there is no requirement for 
deterrent effect; 
v. 
No previous violation of the Act by RJIO: Reliance Industries Limited, the parent 
of RJIO has a comprehensive competition compliance policy in place and 
endeavours to be in compliance with the Competition Act at all times. Therefore, 
penalizing RJIO for a delay in filing the notice would be unfair and excessive. 
Any penalty would cause severe damage to RJIO’s reputation, which as a new 
entrant to the market has brought huge pro-competitive benefits to the telecom 
sector and the consumers; 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 14 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
vi. 
The parties did not try to conceal the arrangement. On the contrary, they notified 
the Spectrum Transaction to the DoT and the details of the same were available in 
the public forums; 
vii. 
The transaction did not raise competition issues in India. The Commission’s 
unconditional approval, of course, is not a defence to a filing requirement. But it 
is further evidence that any failure to notify this innocuous Spectrum Transaction 
was inadvertent and without mala fides and that punitive fines should be reserved 
for companies who try to shield transactions from competition scrutiny, to the 
potential detriment of consumers and the market; 
viii. 
That RJIO actively cooperated with the Commission throughout this proceeding. 
In response to the Commission’s letter of 30.06.2016 asking why it did not file the 
transaction, RJIO provided a full explanation by letter dated 11.08.2016. Upon 
learning that the Commission continued to have questions or concerns and further 
to the letter dated 12.04.2017, RJIO notified the transaction in a Form I on 
07.06.2017 in a spirit of cooperation and to provide the underlying facts showing 
the absence of any competition concerns; and 
ix. 
That the Ministry of Corporate Affairs has also notified a significant amendment 
on 29.06.2017 regarding the time-period within which a transaction is to be 
notified to the Commission and the parties to a combination are now exempt from 
filing a notification within 30 days of the execution of the relevant trigger 
document the Commission. Accordingly, no penalty be levied on RJIO given the 
change in the regulatory framework. 
Submissions on principle of natural justice 
7.31 That the Commission, without hearing it, passed the non-speaking order dated 12.04.2017 
and directed RJIO to file a Form I notice in relation to the Spectrum Transaction. RJIO was 
not granted a hearing to confirm whether the Spectrum Transaction is covered under 
Schedule I, Item 3 of the Combination Regulations or not and that this is in violation of the 
settled principles of natural justice and subjected RJIO to a regulatory requirement that was 
clearly inapplicable.  

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 15 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
D. Analysis and Findings of the Commission 
 
8. 
The Commission has noted the submissions of the Acquirer and on consideration of the 
aforesaid, the following issues arise for determination in the present matter: 
i. Whether the fact that the Spectrum Transaction is pursuant to Spectrum Trading 
Guidelines ousts the jurisdiction of the Commission? 
 
ii. Whether the Spectrum Transaction amounts to “acquisition of assets” within the 
meaning of the term under Section 5 of the Act? and 
 
iii. If the Spectrum Transaction amounts to “acquisition”, whether the transaction is 
covered under Item 3 of Schedule I of the Combination Regulations? 
 
Issue No. 1: Whether the fact that the transaction is pursuant to Spectrum Trading 
Guidelines ousts the jurisdiction of the Commission? 
9. 
As regards the submissions of the Acquirer regarding regulation of telecom sector by TRAI 
and DoT and that the examination of the Spectrum Transaction by the Commission results 
in a complete conflict qua spectrum between the Commission and the TRAI and DoT, it 
may be noted that the guidelines for transfer/merger of service licences on compromises, 
arrangement and amalgamation of companies, issued by Ministry of Communications and 
Information Technology, Government of India in 2014 (“DoT Merger Guidelines”) 
prescribe certain caps on market shares and spectrum holdings. As per the DoT Merger 
Guidelines, in case of merger or acquisition or amalgamation proposals that result in market 
share in any service area exceeding 50 percent, the resultant entity should reduce its market 
shares to 50 percent within a period of one year from the date of approval of merger or 
acquisition or amalgamation (“Market Share Caps”). As regards holding of spectrum by 
a TSP, the Commission noted that the spectrum holding in a licensed service area is subject 
to Spectrum Caps as stated above.  
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 16 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
10. 
In this regard, it may be noted that merely the fact that the sectoral regulator allows an 
activity and prescribes conditions as regards the functioning of the same, it does not mean 
or imply that the competition law would not apply to the concerned sector. The Act requires 
all instances of acquisition of assets, shares, control, voting rights or instances of mergers 
or amalgamations to be notified to the Commission which meet the jurisdictional thresholds 
prescribed under Section 5 of the Act. The Act does not contain or envisage any exemption 
to sectors wherein the sectoral regulator guidelines contain any provision which may relate 
to the competitiveness of the sector. 
 
It may be further relevant to note that the said guidelines are in the nature of subordinate 
legislation and thus repugnancy, if any, is not a case of conflict between legislations enacted 
by the Parliament. Nevertheless, considering the situation on an overall basis, it seems 
appropriate to conclude that the guidelines issued by a sectoral regulator are in furtherance 
of the protection of market competition and not replace the assessment mandated to be 
carried out by the Commission. The clauses included in Spectrum Trading Guidelines 
primarily relate to market share of the parties in terms of spectrum holding. Market share of 
the parties is just one of the several factors, as contained in Section 20(4) of the Act, for 
assessing likelihood of a proposed combination leading to AAEC. Further, even the market 
shares cannot be considered in accordance with the pre-determined safe harbours as the 
efficacy of market shares can vary from sector to sector and even from case to case 
depending on other factors. Accordingly, the Commission has noted in its orders relating to 
telecom sector that the assessment of a proposed combination needs to be based, 
independently of such guidelines, on factors as contained in Section 20(4) of the Act. Thus, 
it may be concluded that the submissions of the Acquirer in this regard are not tenable and 
cannot be acceded to. Further, the Acquirer has contradicted itself by stating that it concedes 
to the jurisdiction of the Commission as regards the mergers and acquisitions and anti-
competitive practices. Considering that the DoT has issued DoT Merger Guidelines and 
prescribed Market Share Caps, going by the logic given by the Acquirer, even the M&As 
involving TSPs would be outside the ambit of competition law. 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 17 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Issue No. 2: Whether the Spectrum Transaction amounts to “acquisition of assets” within 
the meaning of the term under Section 5 of the Act? 
 
11. 
At the outset, it would be appropriate to understand the rationale behind requiring 
notification of instances of acquisition of assets. The key consideration in requiring mergers 
and acquisitions to be reviewed is that the M&As may lead to conferring economic 
advantages to the parties involved giving them an ability to influence the competition 
dynamics of a market. The companies may get these economic benefits by acquiring shares, 
voting rights or control of an enterprise or by acquiring assets of an enterprise. Thus, there 
is no distinction between acquisition of shares, voting rights, control and acquisition of assets 
in so far as it leads to economic advantages. Accordingly, acquisition of assets is required to 
be notified just like acquisition of shares, voting rights and control.  
 
12. 
The aspect of potential economic benefits of assets is also captured in the definition of an 
asset as given under Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 38. The Ind AS 38 defines asset 
as -  
 
“… a resource: (a) controlled by an entity as a result of past events; and (b) from which 
future economic benefits are expected to flow to the entity.” 
 
13. 
However, it is also true that all assets may not have significant economic significance to 
merit a merger review and accordingly, all instances of acquisition of assets are not required 
to be notified and different jurisdictions use different approaches to distinguish between 
cases of acquisition of assets falling under the merger review process and otherwise. The 
Combination Regulations provide for two instances of acquisition of assets which do not 
normally require notification –  
 
Item 3 of Schedule I – 
“An acquisition of assets, referred to in sub- clause (i) or sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of 
section 5 of the Act, not directly related to the business activity of the party acquiring the 
asset or made solely as an investment or in the ordinary course of business, not leading to 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 18 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
control of the enterprise whose assets are being acquired except where the assets being 
acquired represent substantial business operations in a particular location or for a 
particular product or service of the enterprise, of which assets are being acquired, 
irrespective of whether such assets are organized as a separate legal entity or not.” 
 
Item 5 of Schedule I – 
“An acquisition of stock-in-trade, raw materials, stores and spares, trade receivables and 
other similar current assets in the ordinary course of business.” 
 
14. 
Apart from the specific instances of acquisition of assets identified in Schedule I, the 
Commission has also considered international best practices as regards the determination of 
an acquisition of assets falling under the merger review process. It is observed that the 
international best practices are based on broad principle of considering the economic 
significance or competitive significance of the assets involved.  
 
15. 
In this regard, it is observed that the Acquirer has also submitted that the intention behind 
requiring the mandatory notification of asset acquisitions is to ensure that acquisitions of 
businesses/divisions/units/portions of an enterprise, which by themselves do not constitute 
an “enterprise” are reviewed by the Commission when such acquisitions have an effect on 
the market. The submissions of the Acquirer also indicate that the economic significance or 
competitive significance is the primary consideration behind requiring asset acquisitions to 
be notified for merger review purposes. 
 
16. 
In this backdrop, the Commission examined the submissions of the Acquirer as regards 
Spectrum Transaction not amounting to acquisition of assets under the Act.  
 
17. 
The first aspect to be considered in determination of instances of acquisition of assets falling 
under the merger review process is the economic significance. From the submissions of the 
Parties, it is quite clear that spectrum is a resource which is “must have” for a TSP. The 
Acquirer has itself highlighted that spectrum is a basic and essential ingredient required for 
providing wireless telecommunication services and that every TSP must obtain the right to 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 19 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
use spectrum from time to time with addition of subscribers to its customer base to be able 
to provide telecommunication services and maintain continuity of its business and services. 
These submissions of the Acquirer clearly bring out the fact that spectrum is integral to the 
operations of a TSP and therefore has significant economic and competitive significance. 
Also, the fact that Spectrum Trading Guidelines contain competition consideration and 
regulate the maximum amount of spectrum that a TSP can hold accentuates the economic 
and competitive significance of the spectrum. 
 
18. 
The second aspect to be considered in determination of instances of acquisition of assets 
falling under the merger review process is whether the concerned asset constitutes a business 
or whether market turnover can be attributed to it. The Acquirer has submitted that the 
spectrum in the instant case does not constitute market presence as the Spectrum 
Transaction:  (i) does not envisage acquisition of assets as a going concern; (ii) does not 
envisage transfer of goodwill/customer loyalty; and (iii) does not involve any acquisition of 
customers, contracts, subscriptions or other essentials of a telecom business. In this regard, 
it may be noted that the phrase “constituting business” or “attribution of market turnover” 
are to be seen in context of “potential” of generating turnover and constituting business. Only 
in these terms, the concept of “assets constituting a business” would be in sync with the basic 
principle behind requiring instances of acquisition of assets to notify i.e., the principle of 
“economic significance”. Going by the view taken by the Acquirer, any enterprise would be 
entitled to transfer any asset without notifying the same to the Commission if it is viewed as 
a surplus given the transferor’s scale/scope of operations. The requirements indicated by the 
Acquirer for an asset to be considered as constituting business may add to the economic 
significance of concerned asset but their absence does not diminish the economic 
significance of the asset on a standalone basis. It is clear that acquisition of spectrum 
increases the ability of a TSP to cater to a broader subscriber base and generate additional 
turnover and correspondingly reduces such abilities of a TSP that has sold the right to use of 
spectrum. Further, as noted above, spectrum is integral to the operations of a TSP which also 
highlights its economic significance. On the basis of the aforesaid economic significance of 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 20 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
spectrum in terms of potential of generating turnover, it may be inferred that spectrum 
constitutes business and that market turnover can be attributed to it.  
 
19. 
The Acquirer has submitted that the ownership of spectrum remains with the Government of 
India and that the transfer of right to use of spectrum from Government of India to licensee 
is revocable. The key rationale which emerges from submissions of RJIO in this regard is 
that the licensee cannot be regarded as “controlling” the spectrum held by it for use. In this 
regard, it is noted that spectrum is a natural resource which is critical to the provision of 
mobile telephony services and accordingly, the allocation and use of spectrum is regulated 
by government authorities and the DoT grants licenses and allocates and regulates the right 
to use spectrum, while retaining ownership over the resource. However, in context of 
competition law, as regards instances of acquisition of assets, “control” represents the right 
to economic benefits that would flow from the resource and not the perpetual ownership of 
a resource. In that context, right to use of spectrum or any other natural resource does 
constitute an asset. This position is buttressed by the representation of right to use of 
spectrum as an intangible asset by the Acquirer in its financial statements. 
 
20. 
As regards the submissions of the Acquirer that if the Commission were to take the view that 
acquisition of right to use spectrum amounts to a combination under the Act, every instance 
of such auction of spectrum to each TSP in India would amount to a notifiable combination, 
the Commission observed that there is fundamental distinction between acquiring spectrum 
by participating in auctions and acquiring spectrum from other TSPs. While acquisition of 
spectrum by participating in auctions amounts to organic growth, the acquisition of spectrum 
from other TSPs amounts to inorganic growth. The merger review processes focus on 
examination of inorganic growth only and consequently the acquisition of spectrum by 
participating in auctions would not attract scrutiny under the merger review process. 
 
21. 
In view of the above, the Commission is of the opinion that acquisition of right to use of 
spectrum constitutes an acquisition of assets for the purpose of the Act. 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 21 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Issue No. 3: Whether the Spectrum Transaction is covered under Item 3 of Schedule I of 
the Combination Regulations? 
 
22. 
The essential conditions of Item 3 of Schedule I are: (i) acquisition of assets not directly 
related to the business activity of the acquirer; or (ii) acquisition of assets made solely as an 
investment or in ordinary course of business. Considering the fact that RJIO is also a TSP, 
the first essential condition cannot be fulfilled as the asset in question i.e., spectrum is 
directly related to the business of the Acquirer. 
 
23. 
The next aspect for determination is whether the acquisition of spectrum can be considered 
to be in ordinary course of business or solely as an investment. In this regard, it would be 
appropriate to first consider what is meant by “business” and based on that to examine what 
constitutes activities in ordinary course of business. 
 
24. 
The word “business” implies regular occupation, profession or trade. Based on this 
definition, the business activities can be considered as the activities relating to the regular 
occupation, profession or trade. After noting the scope of business activities, the next 
question to be examined is whether all the business activities can be said to be in ordinary 
course. For this purpose, the business activities/transactions need to be further classified into 
two broad categories, viz., (i) revenue transaction; (ii) capital transactions. 
 
25. 
Revenue transactions may simply be defined as those transactions which are short term and 
constitute income and expenditure and are accordingly reflected in profit and loss account 
or income statement of the enterprise. Capital transactions on the other hand are those which 
affect non-current items such as fixed assets, long term debt etc. and affect the position 
statement of an enterprise. In other words, capital transactions impact the ability of a business 
to carry out revenue transactions. For example, an installation of a new production unit 
(capital expenditure) would be expected to lead to increase in production which in turn would 
be expected to lead to greater sales revenue. On the other hand, revenue transactions only 
impact the existing state of operations and do not change the operating potential. Another 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 22 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
difference between the two may be the frequency of occurrence. Revenue transactions are 
frequent while capital transactions are relatively infrequent. 
 
26. 
Considering the aforesaid differences between capital and revenue transactions, capital 
transactions are considered to be strategic i.e., having economic or competitive significance 
and the revenue transactions are considered to be routine and usual in nature. The term 
“ordinary course of business” also is meant to refer to transactions which are frequent, 
routine and usual and therefore it may be said that the term “ordinary course of business” 
corresponds to revenue transactions for the competition law purposes. 
 
27. 
However, it is also important to note that what constitutes revenue and capital transactions 
vary from business to business i.e., a capital transaction for one business may be a revenue 
transaction for the other. For example, for a seller of plant and machinery, sale of plant and 
machinery may be an activity in ordinary course of business as the same constitutes its 
regular trade while for any player who was using a machine to produce goods for sale, sale 
of such machine would be a capital transaction. In fact, a same item may also have different 
classification. For example, furniture held for sale by a furniture seller would be a current 
asset and the sale proceeds of the same would be revenue receipts but for the same business, 
the stock of furniture held for use in office furnishings etc. would be a non-current asset and 
the expenditure incurred on purchasing the same would be capital expenditure and receipts 
from sale of such furniture would be a capital receipt. In other words, the activities for which 
business is established would be the activities in ordinary course and the activities which are 
meant to help the business carry on its ordinary activities efficiently would be the strategic 
capital transactions. In this backdrop, the specific facts of the instant case can be examined. 
 
28. 
As regards the nature of activities of a TSP, it is noted that the main revenue activities of a 
TSP are activities relating to provision of mobile telephony services. These activities 
constitute the “business” of a TSP, i.e., these activities are in ordinary course of business for 
a TSP and the activities relating to acquisition/transfer of resources such as spectrum which 
are used to render such services are strategic capital transactions and cannot be equated to 
ordinary revenue activities. The Acquirer has stated that spectrum is basic and essential to 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 23 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
the activities of a TSP and therefore acquisition of the same should be considered to be in 
ordinary course of business. It may be noted that all assets are basic and essential to the end 
business revenue activities and if the logic given by the Acquirer is accepted, it would imply 
that acquisition of any or all assets by an entity would be in ordinary course of business and 
eligible to get benefit of exemption under Item 3 of Schedule I of the Combination 
Regulations. The implication of such logic would be that none of the instances of acquisition 
of assets would be covered under merger review process which would be inconsistent with 
the provisions of the Act relating to regulation of combinations.  
 
29. 
The aforesaid findings are bolstered by considering the accounting treatment of spectrum in 
the financial statements prepared by the Acquirer and other TSPs. While preparing the 
financial statements, the results of ordinary activities of a business are depicted in profit and 
loss account while the position of assets and liabilities is contained in balance sheet. The 
Acquirer has duly recognized spectrum as an intangible asset i.e., a non-current asset in its 
balance sheet and not as asset held for sale which would have been reflected as a current 
asset. Thus, on one hand, representing spectrum as a non-current asset in financial 
statements, to make a claim that spectrum is held in ordinary course of business is not correct. 
 
30. 
The Commission further observes that the aforesaid analysis is not impacted by the fact that 
the “trading” of spectrum has now been allowed with issuance of Spectrum Trading 
Guidelines and transaction was pursuant to the same. Spectrum was earlier subjected to 
restrictions as regards sale/transfer but there are other assets of TSPs which are equally 
significant to carry on the business of provision of telecommunication services and those 
never had such restrictions and could have been sold/transferred at their will. Going by the 
rationale given by the Acquirer, sale/transfer of all such assets would also be considered to 
be in ordinary course of business. The Spectrum Trading Guidelines allow the TSPs to 
sell/transfer surplus resources and promotes efficiency in operations but does not and cannot 
alter the nature of a transaction. Spectrum was always a non-current asset whose sale was 
previously not allowed and now the same has been allowed and this change does not make 
spectrum trading as an activity in ordinary course of business for a TSP. The conditions for 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 24 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
spectrum trading requiring inter alia, intimation to DoT before proposed effective date of 
trading, compliance of spectrum caps, trading permissible only after two years of acquisition 
of spectrum through auction, requirement of buyer to fulfil roll-out obligations in the event 
of acquisition of entire spectrum holding etc., clearly imply that the spectrum transactions 
are not similar to activities in ordinary course of business which are not subjected to such 
conditions. 
 
31. 
The Acquirer has also submitted that the spectrum acquired does not represent substantial 
business operations. In this regard, it may be noted that the necessary condition to avail 
exemption under Item 3 of Schedule I is that the acquisition of asset should be in ordinary 
course of business and in view of the aforesaid discussions where it is observed that spectrum 
transaction is not in ordinary course of business, the issue of it constituting “substantial 
business operations” or otherwise becomes otiose. 
 
32. 
RJIO has stated that narrow interpretation of the Item 3 exemption would make several small 
spectrum trading deals notifiable and the same would unnecessarily flood the Commission 
with notifications regarding routine transactions that have no impact on competition. It has 
already been stated that spectrum is an asset having significant economic/competitive 
significance and in view of the same, the submissions of RJIO in this regard are not 
considered as tenable. 
 
33. 
Apart from the aforesaid key issues, RJIO has made certain submissions on scope of Section 
43A of the Act, mitigating factors etc. The same have been examined as under. 
 
34. 
The Acquirer has submitted that Section 43A only provides for imposition of penalty for 
violations of Section 6(2)(a) and not for violation of Section 6(2A) of the Act. It has been 
further stated that where the parties have filed a notice under Section 6(2)(a) of the Act and 
have submitted to the jurisdiction of the Commission, then a penalty cannot be levied under 
Section 43A of the Act for violation of Section 6(2A) of the Act. 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 25 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
35. 
In this regard, at the outset, it may be noted that in terms of extant Section 6(2) of the Act, 
the notice should have been filed within 30 days of execution of agreement for acquisition 
of spectrum. In the instant case, the notice has been filed on the directions of the Commission 
under Section 20(1) of the Act and at that time the period of 30 days as prescribed under 
extant Section 6(2) of the Act had already expired and the transaction was already 
consummated thus implying that RJIO was already in contravention of provisions of Section 
6(2) of the Act at the time of issue of Section 20(1) Directions. The same fact cannot change 
by reason of RJIO filing a notice pursuant to Section 20(1) Directions. Thus, considering 
that RJIO is found to be in violation of Section 6(2) and 6(2A) of the Act,  the submissions 
that Section 43A only provides for imposition of penalty for violations of Section 6(2)(a) 
and not for violation of Section 6(2A) of the Act are not considered as relevant. 
 
36. 
Notwithstanding the aforesaid findings, for the sake of completion, it may be noted that the 
issue of imposition of penalty for violation of provisions of Section 6(2A) has been examined 
and settled by the Commission in its earlier decisions in Baxalta Incorporated C-2015-07-
297 (Order dated 08.03.2016) wherein it has been observed that, 
 
“…the words “proposes” and “proposed” used in sub-section (2) of Section 6 have to be 
read in the context of sub-section (2A) of Section 6 (which suspends the consummation of 
the proposed combination for the period stated therein). Accordingly, till the expiry of the 
210 days from the date of filing of the notice or the Commission has passed an order under 
Section 31 of the Act, whichever is earlier, a combination should remain a proposed 
combination and parties to the combination should not give effect to the combination. If the 
parties to the combination are allowed to give effect to the proposed combination either 
before filing of the notice with the Commission or after filing of the notice but before the 
expiry of the period given in sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of the Act, then it will 
tantamount to violation of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act.” (emphasis added) 
 
37. 
Further, the erstwhile Hon’ble Competition Appellate Tribunal (“CompAT”), while 
adjudicating the issue relating to ex-ante nature of notification in the case of SCM Soilfert 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 26 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Limited and Others v. Competition Commission of India, (2016) Comp. L.R. 1111 (“SCM 
Case”), observed that:  
 
“The ex-ante nature of notification under Section 6(2) is buttressed by a reading of sec. 6(2A) 
which deliberately used the phrase “no combination shall come into effect” until 210 days from 
date of notice, or passing of order under Sec. 31.” 
 
38. 
The principles enshrined in Baxalta Incorporated and SCM Case have been applied by the 
Commission in certain other cases as well. In view of the aforesaid, the submissions of RJIO are 
not considered as tenable.   
 
39. 
The Commission noted the submissions of RJIO that if the Spectrum Transaction were to 
take place today, the value of turnover derived from RCOM’s ideal spectrum would be de-
minimis i.e., no revenue can be ascribed to the acquired spectrum as it represents a surplus 
and unutilized asset for RCOM/RTL. The Commission observed that as the aforesaid issue 
is not a subject matter of the present proceedings, any determinative findings in this regard 
are not required and the same may be left open at this stage. 
 
40. 
The Commission also noted the submissions of RJIO that the parties to a combination are 
now exempt from filing a notification within 30 days of the execution of the relevant trigger 
document the Commission. Accordingly, no penalty be levied on RJIO given the change in 
the regulatory framework. The aforesaid submissions of RJIO are not considered as tenable 
considering that (i) the regulatory framework applicable at the time of Spectrum Transaction 
required RJIO to file notice within 30 days of execution of agreements for acquisition of 
spectrum; and (ii) the Spectrum Transaction has not been notified voluntarily by RJIO but 
only on the directions of the Commission; and (iii) even the present regulatory framework 
requires the parties to a combination to file a notice before consummation of a transaction 
whereas the Spectrum Transaction was consummated before filing of notice.  
 
41. 
The Commission noted the submissions of RJIO as regards violation of settled principles of 
natural justice by passing a non-speaking order requiring RJIO to file a notice and not 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 27 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
granting RJIO an opportunity for personal hearing. The Commission observed that Section 
20(1) Directions were based on considering submissions of RJIO dated 12.08.2016 and 
additional voluntary submissions dated 19.09.2016 and 24.11.2016. Section 20(1) Directions 
were properly reasoned as regards why the Spectrum Transaction required notification with 
the Commission. Section 20(1) Directions clearly stated that based on the combined assets 
and turnover of RJIO and RCOM, the notification thresholds under Section 5(a) of the Act 
are met and that acquisition of spectrum: (i) is an “acquisition” within the meaning of the 
Act; and (ii) does not fall under any item under Schedule I to the Combination Regulations. 
Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and given that RJIO had filed all the 
information and even made additional submissions, personal hearing was not considered 
required at that stage. In course of Section 43A proceedings, RJIO was granted personal 
hearing in accordance with the General Regulations. Thus, there is no violation of natural 
justice and submissions of RJIO in this regard are not considered as tenable.   
 
42. 
Based on the aforesaid, it is evident that the Acquirers’ act of acquiring right to use of 
spectrum of RCOM/RTL without filing a notice with the Commission amounts to 
contravention of provisions of Section 6(2) of the Act and accordingly attracts penalty under 
Section 43A of the Act, which reads as under:  
 
“If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission under sub section(2) 
of section 6, the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a penalty which may 
extend to one percent of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, of such a 
combination.”  
 
43. 
In terms of Section 43A of the Act, the Commission can levy a maximum penalty of one per 
cent of the combined value of the worldwide turnover of the Parties. However, the 
Commission has sufficient discretion to consider the conduct of the Parties and the 
circumstances of the case to arrive at the appropriate amount of penalty. As regards the 
instant case, the Commission notes that the Spectrum Transaction was one of the first 
instances of spectrum trading in India and there was significant uncertainty as regards 
notification requirement under the Act. In view of the foregoing, the Commission considers 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2017/06/516) 
 
 
Page 28 of 28 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
it appropriate to impose a nominal penalty of INR 5,00,000/- (INR Five Lakhs only) on the 
Acquirer. 
 
44. 
The Acquirer shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of this 
order. 
 
45. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to RJIO accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
