 
 
Page 1 of 13 
 
                        COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2013/06/124) 
 
01.08. 2013 
 
Order u/s 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 in the matter of notice 
u/s 6 (2) of the Competition Act, 2002 given by: 
 
 Zulia Investments Pte. Ltd. 
 Kinder Investments Pte. Ltd. 
 
1. 
On 6th June, 2013, the Competition Commission of India (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Commission”) received a notice under sub-section 
(2) of Section 6 of the Competition Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as 
the “Act”), given by Zulia Investments Pte. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to 
as “Zulia”) and Kinder Investments Pte. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as 
“Kinder”), both indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of Temasek 
Holdings (Private) Limited (hereinafter referred to as “Temasek”) 
(hereinafter Zulia, Kinder and Temasek are collectively referred to as the 
“Acquirers”), in relation to a proposed acquisition of 439,000,000 new 
ordinary shares of DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as 
“DBSH”). As the abovesaid notice was given to the Commission beyond 
the time limit as prescribed under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, 
Zulia and Kinder also filed an application requesting for condonation of 
delay in giving the notice. 
 
2. 
As per the information provided in the notice, it is observed that the 
aforementioned proposed acquisition followed from and was a result of 
the Share Purchase Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the “SPA”), 
dated 2nd April, 2012, executed between Fullerton Financial Holdings 
Pte Ltd (hereinafter referred to as “Fullerton”), an indirect wholly 
owned subsidiary of Temasek, and DBS Group Holdings Ltd (hereinafter 
referred to as “DBSH”), whereby Fullerton agreed to sell and DBSH 
agreed to purchase, 100 per cent of the issued share capital in Fullerton’s 

                       COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 2 of 13 
 
direct wholly owned subsidiary, Asia Financial (Indonesia) Pte. Ltd., 
which in turn, held approximately 67.37 per cent of the equity share 
capital of an Indonesian Bank, PT Bank Danamon Indonesia Tbk.  
 
3. 
Pursuant to the terms of the said SPA, in satisfaction of the consideration 
for the 100 per cent acquisition of Asia Financial (Indonesia) Pte. Ltd., 
DBSH was to issue 439,000,000 new ordinary shares in DBSH to 
Fullerton or Temasek or such other wholly owned subsidiaries of 
Temasek or their respective nominee(s) holding on their behalf, as 
Fullerton might direct DBSH. As stated in the notice, thereafter, as per 
the terms of the SPA, an Undertaking Agreement, dated 13th May, 2013 
was executed between Fullerton, Zulia and Kinder, in which Zulia was 
to receive 219,400,000 new ordinary shares of DBSH and Kinder was to 
receive 219,600,000 new ordinary shares of DBSH. Accordingly, as 
stated in the notice, in terms of the SPA, Fullerton vide letter dated 13th 
May, 2013 directed DBSH to issue the respective shares to Zulia and 
Kinder on the date of completion of the SPA. 
 
4. 
It is stated in the notice that based on the SPA, being the binding 
document, the notice, in terms of sub-section(2) of Section 6 of the Act, 
ought to have been filed by the Acquirers by 2nd May, 2012. However, 
the said notice had been given by Zulia and Kinder to the Commission 
only on 6th June, 2013, with a delay of around 399 days.  
 
5. 
The Commission, in its Ordinary meeting held on 18th June, 2013, 
considered the said belated notice along with the application for 
condonation of delay and inter-alia decided to admit the belated filing in 
terms of Regulation 7 of the Combination Regulations, without 
prejudice to the action that may be taken under Section 43A of the Act. 
The Commission in the said meeting also decided to initiate separate 
proceedings under Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of 
India (General) Regulations, 2009 (hereinafter referred to as the 
“General Regulations”), regarding imposition of penalty under Section 
43A of the Act, as the abovesaid notice was not given within the time 
prescribed in sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. It was also decided 

                       COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 3 of 13 
 
by the Commission that the period of thirty days and two hundred and 
ten days as mentioned in sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 19 of the 
Combination Regulations and sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of the Act 
respectively, shall be computed from the day on which the belated notice 
was admitted by the Commission.  
 
6. 
In terms of Regulation 14 of the Combination Regulations, vide letter 
dated 20th June, 2013, the Acquirers were required to remove certain 
defects and provide information/document(s). The response of the 
Acquirers was received on 5th July, 2013. As the said response of the 
Acquirers continued to have defects, therefore, on 10th July, 2013 
another letter in terms of Regulation 14 of the Combination Regulations 
was issued to the Acquirers, to remove the continuing defects and 
provide information/document(s). The response of the Acquirers was 
received on 22nd July, 2013. In their response dated 22th July, 2013, the 
Acquirers, inter-alia, also submitted that 144,355 non-voting preference 
shares were acquired by Maju Holdings Pte. Ltd (hereinafter referred to 
as “Maju”), a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Temasek, by way of an 
election for a scrip dividend in July 2011 and that Maju was not aware 
that the de-minimis acquisition of such non-voting preference shares by 
way of scrip dividend in July 2011 would trigger any requirement to 
make a prior notification under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, 
to the Commission. The Acquirers have also submitted that the increase 
in Maju’s shareholding in DBSH from 15.23 per cent to 15.32 per cent 
on 5th July, 2011 was only in the nature of a de minimis acquisition by 
way of an election of scrip dividend, which took place two years ago 
when the Indian merger control regime was in the early stages of 
implementation and there was a lack of awareness of the filing 
requirements in India amongst the global foreign companies.  
 
7. 
The Acquirers, vide their letter dated 5th July, 2013, filed in terms of 
Regulation 16 of the Combination Regulations, also informed the 
Commission of certain changes in the information provided in the 
notice. The Commission in its meeting held on 10th July, 2013, 
considered the said changes, as intimated by the Acquirers, vide 

                       COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 4 of 13 
 
application dated 5th July, 2013, under Regulation 16 of the Combination 
Regulations, noted the changes and took them on record, as these would 
not affect the factors for the determination of any appreciable adverse 
effect on competition. 
 
8. 
As per the directions of the Commission, a show cause notice dated 20th 
June, 2013, under Section 43A of the Act and Regulation 48 of the 
General Regulations, was issued to the Acquirers to show cause, in 
writing, within 15 days of the receipt of the notice, as to why penalty in 
terms of Section 43A of the Act should not be imposed on them for not 
having filed the notice within the time prescribed in sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 of the Act. The response to the show cause notice was filed by 
the Acquirers on 5th July, 2013, wherein it was inter-alia submitted that: 
 
Before the signing of the SPA and after the SPA was signed, Temasek, 
through their legal counsel, had taken all necessary steps to check with 
the first set of Indian counsel about the regulatory approvals which 
would be required for the Proposed Transaction. Unfortunately, 
Temasek was, wrongly, not advised about the possibility of a notification 
under Sections 5 and 6 of the Competition Act by their first set of Indian 
counsel; 
 
Temasek learnt of the possibility of the 30-day requirement under 
Section 6(2) of the Competition Act applying to the Proposed 
Transaction only during the course of advice received on another 
separate and unrelated matter in April 2013; 
 
Upon getting confirmation from the second set of Indian counsel, 
Temasek took immediate steps to collate the necessary information and 
prepare the Notification Form. The Acquirers have expeditiously and 
voluntarily filed the Notification Form as soon as they became aware of 
the 30-day requirement to notify the Proposed Transaction with the 
Hon’ble Commission; 
 
No part of the Proposed Transaction has yet been consummated; and 

                       COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 5 of 13 
 
 
The Proposed Transaction is an entirely offshore transaction and this is 
the first merger notification made by the Acquirers in India. 
 
As Temasek and the Acquirers, wrongly, received incomplete and hence 
erroneous legal advice from their first Indian counsel, the acts and 
omissions of the Acquirers have not been guided by any mala fide 
intention and they have voluntarily filed the Notification Form as soon 
as possible after they have become aware of the requirement to file 
under Section 6(2) of the Competition Act. Accordingly, as a goodwill 
gesture, the Hon’ble Commission is requested to take a lenient view in 
the current circumstances to kindly condone the delay and not impose 
any penalty under Section 43A of the Competition Act. 
 
Without prejudice to the above, in the event the Hon’ble Commission is 
not agreeable to the submission of the Acquirers not to impose any 
penalty, it is most humbly requested that, in keeping with the principle of 
proportionality, the Hon’ble Commission may be pleased to impose a 
nominal amount as a symbolic or a token penalty for the delayed filing, 
giving due weight to the strong mitigating factors as set out above 
before coming to a final conclusion on the penalties. 
 
9. 
In its ordinary meeting held on 10th July, 2013, the Commission 
considered the said reply and directed that the Acquirers or their 
authorised representatives shall be required to appear, in person, before 
it, on 25th July, 2013, at 10:30 AM, to present their case as to why 
penalty in terms of Section 43A of the Act should not be imposed upon 
the Acquirers, for not having filed the notice within the time prescribed 
in sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. Accordingly, a letter was sent 
to the Acquirers and their authorised representatives on 12th July, 2013 
requiring them to appear before the Commission on the appointed date. 
The authorised representatives acting on behalf of the Acquirers, vide 
letter dated 22nd July, 2013, sought an adjournment of the hearing by one 
week and requested the Commission to re-schedule the date of hearing 

                       COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 6 of 13 
 
to 1st August, 2013. The Commission considered the said request and 
directed that the Acquirers or their authorised representatives shall be 
required to appear, in person, before it, on 1st August, 2013, at 10:30 
AM, to present their case as to why penalty in terms of Section 43A of 
the Act should not be imposed upon the Acquirers, for not having filed 
the notice within the time prescribed in sub-section (2) of Section 6 of 
the Act. Accordingly, a letter was sent to the Acquirers and their 
authorised representatives on 24th July, 2013 requiring them to appear 
before the Commission on the appointed date.  
 
10. The Acquirers, during the course of the personal hearing before the 
Commission held on 1st August, 2013, informed the Commission that 
DBSH on 31st July, 2013 had made an announcement in the Singapore 
Stock Exchange to the effect that the SPA pertaining to the proposed 
combination would lapse after 1st August, 2013. The Acquirers also 
informed the Commission that since the said SPA would terminate and 
the proposed transaction would not proceed, therefore, the Acquirers 
wished to withdraw the notice filed with the Commission on 6th June, 
2013 and also request the Commission to terminate the proceedings 
initiated against the Acquirers under Section 43 A of the Act.  
 
11. The Commission noted the aforementioned development regarding the 
notice to the effect that the proposed combination would not take place 
and the proceedings under the Act, relating to the proposed combination, 
will be terminated in terms of Regulation 17 of the Combination 
Regulations, with effect from 1st August, 2013 i.e. the date on which the 
Commission was intimated by the Acquirers that the said notice is being 
withdrawn by them.  
 
12. The Acquirers also made additional submissions vide their letter dated 
1st August, 2013 in which inter-alia they mentioned that Temasek, at no 
point of the time, was informed by its counsels or by the counsels of 
DBSH regarding the time limit of thirty days, within which the notice 
with respect to a proposed combination, is required to be filed under the 
provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. It may be relevant 

                       COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 7 of 13 
 
to mention here that the Commission in an earlier order1 had 
categorically stated that “under the provisions of sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 of the Act, any person or enterprise, who or which proposes to 
enter into a combination, shall give notice to the Commission, disclosing 
the details of the proposed combination within thirty days of “(a) 
approval of the proposal relating to merger or amalgamation, referred to 
in clause (c) of Section 5, by the board of directors of the enterprises 
concerned with such merger or amalgamation, as the case may be; (b) 
execution of any agreement or other document for acquisition, referred 
to in clause (a) of Section 5 or acquiring of control referred to in clause 
(b) of that Section”. The Commission had reiterated the provisions of 
sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act in the said order, with a view to 
make the stakeholders aware of the statutory requirement of mandatorily 
giving a notice to the Commission regarding a proposed combination. It 
is, therefore, observed that had the Acquirers been vigilant of the said 
provisions of the Act and the observations made by the Commission in 
the abovesaid order regarding the regulatory compliance of giving a 
prior notice of the proposed combination to the Commission, such a 
delay on the part of the Acquirers, in giving the notice, in the present 
case, could have been averted. 
 
13. Notwithstanding the termination of the of the proceedings relating to the 
proposed combination in terms of Regulation 17 of the Combination 
Regulations, with effect from 1st August, 2013, consequent to the 
aforementioned development as intimated by the Acquirers, the 
Commission noted that the delay of 399 days in giving the notice under 
sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act is an admitted fact, and the 
violation of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act by the Acquirers is 
therefore beyond dispute. The only point for decision is the nature and 
quantum of penalty to be imposed on the Acquirers under the provisions 
of Section 43A of the Act. The Commission, therefore, decided to take 
up the proceedings regarding the imposition of penalty under Section 
43A of the Act.  
                                                          
1 In the matter bearing Combination Registration No. C-2012-02-40, issued on 12th April, 2012. 

                       COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 8 of 13 
 
 
14. In deciding about the penalty under Section 43A of the Act, the 
Commission has to consider the implications of a violation of sub-
section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, read with other relevant provisions of 
the Act, as also what could be the mitigating and/or aggravating factors. 
This decision has to be taken in the backdrop of the Commission’s 
approach to regulation of combinations. The Commission’s approach in 
dealing with combination notices is quite clear.  We consider inorganic 
growth through combinations as a positive business strategy for the 
economy that deserves due support, and the analysis at the prima facie 
stage focuses on quickly sifting out only those few cases where 
competition concerns may require a more in-depth inquiry in phase II. 
So far, all the combination notices have been approved at the prima facie 
stage itself in less than thirty days. As it is, the Act has laid down high 
thresholds of assets/turnover, above which only the parties to the 
proposed combination are required to file a notification. This implicitly 
means that only a limited number of combinations are required to be 
notified, and these cases involve big companies with substantial 
resources, including MNCs with multi-jurisdictional operations. The 
Commission has also put in place an effective pre-notification 
consultation mechanism to assist the parties in clarifying any issues in 
case of any doubts. 
 
15. In the above backdrop, it is expected that the parties must demonstrate a 
high sense of responsibility in filing combination notifications within the 
prescribed time limit, after effective and bonafide due diligence. This 
becomes even more important in view of the fact that sub-section (1) of 
Section 20 of the Act prevents the Commission from initiating any 
inquiry after the expiry of one year from the date on which a 
combination, which has not been notified, takes effect. Therefore, the 
possibility of a combination which may actually cause appreciable 
adverse effect on competition (AAEC), escaping the scrutiny of the 
Commission, in case the parties do not file the mandatory notification, is 
real and cannot be ruled out notwithstanding any internal systems within 
the Commission to discover such cases within one year.  Even in cases 

                       COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 9 of 13 
 
which come to the notice of the Commission before the expiry of this 
one year, there could be problems in case the combination has been 
consummated, since restoring the original position may be as difficult as 
unscrambling an omelette. In the present case itself, if the parties had 
been able to consummate the combination within thirty days of the 
agreement, the Commission would not have been able to inquire into the 
case,  since it would have no jurisdiction to do so after 395 (30 + 365) 
days, while the notification in this case has been filed after 399 days. 
 
16. The various mitigating factors submitted by the parties have to be, 
therefore, assessed in the above backdrop of the seriousness of the 
violation itself. The failure to file cannot be treated as a routine 
compliance default, as it could potentially have the grave consequence 
of defeating the very purpose of providing for regulation of 
combinations.It is, therefore, imperative for the companies to understand 
and appreciate the full extent of their responsibility for complying with 
the requirement of timely filing of the notifications regarding proposed 
combinations under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. 
 
17. It has been submitted by the Acquirers that the delay in giving the notice 
to the Commission was due to their acting on an erroneous legal advice. 
In this regard the Commission observes that there is full clarity in the 
provisions relating to regulation of combinations as contained in the Act 
and the Combination Regulations, including the provisions under sub-
section (2) of Section 6 of the Act relating to the time limit within which 
any person or enterprise who or which proposes to enter into a 
combination shall give notice to the Commission. Therefore, the plea of 
the Acquirers that they were not familiar with the thirty day notification 
requirement, does not hold ground. Further, the Acquirers have also 
submitted that when a combination is abandoned, the very purpose and 
basis of the Commission’s inquiry is extinguished and an assessment of 
the likely competition concerns arising in such a case would become a 
moot point. In this regard the Commission observes that the regulatory 
compliance in terms of timely filing of the notice of the proposed 
combination and the ultimate fate of the transaction are two entirely 

                       COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 10 of 13 
 
different issues, and the provisions of the Act are also very clear on this 
aspect. It may be noted that whereas sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the 
Act prescribes the period in which any person or enterprise who or 
which proposes to enter into a combination shall give notice to the 
Commission, the power to impose penalty for non-furnishing of 
information on combinations under Section 43A of the Act has been 
kept with a purpose that all the combinations, before they have been 
given effect to, are notified for review by the Commission. The above 
two provisions of the Act address two different issues precisely 
depicting the fact that timely filing and the ultimate fate of the deal are 
two separate issues, with the parties being responsible for the filing, and 
the Commission being responsible for assessing whether the proposed 
combination is likely to have AAEC.  
 
18. Based on the documents on record, the Commission observes that during 
the period March 2012 to April 2012, when Temasek was in discussion 
with its counsels on the course of the regulatory approvals, there had 
been no mention of regulatory compliance with the competition law in 
India, notwithstanding the fact that the obligation to give notice under 
sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act rested with Temasek. Further, for 
the period between May 2012 to December 2012, no records have been 
submitted to show whether Temasek continued to communicate with 
their counsels on regulatory compliance of the competition law in India. 
It is also observed that it was DBSH, which informed Temasek 
regarding the filing requirements of the proposed transaction. The 
Commission also observes from the e-mail dated 17th January, 2013, 
sent by the counsel of DBS Singapore to the counsel of Temasek 
Singapore, that although Temasek was informed by the counsels around 
mid January 2013 that pre-notification with respect to the proposed 
combination was required under the provisions of the Act, nevertheless 
the Acquirers finally gave notice to the Commission after a further lapse 
of around five months. It is also noted from the e-mail dated 28th 
January, 2013 sent by Temasek Indian counsel to the Temasek 
Singapore counsel, that Temasek was also informed by their counsels 

                       COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 11 of 13 
 
that a request for pre-filing consultation could be made to the officials of 
the Commission to understand the filing requirement, within the scope 
of the law, in context of the facts and circumstances of the present case 
and nature of the proposed combination. It seems, however, that 
notwithstanding the legal advice, Temasek did not comply with the 
regulatory mandate within the time limit as provided under the Act, with 
respect to the proposed combination. All the above factors signify that 
the Acquirers did not show any sense of urgency or seriousness on the 
issue of regulatory compliance pertaining to the Indian Competition Law 
and were slow in response to the advice of their counsels at different 
points of time. On going through the above relevant e-mails, it also 
appears that there was a piecemeal exchange of information between the 
Acquirers and their counsels and that too with no communication 
between them during the period May 2012 to December 2012, adding to 
the delay on the part of the Acquirers in giving the notice under sub-
section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. The Commission also observes that 
Temasek and DBSH have been operating in India, inter-alia in the 
banking and financial sectors, for a reasonably long time and, therefore, 
they are not new to the prevalent Indian regulatory provisions and 
requirements. Further, it is also observed as regards the plea of the 
Acquirers that no part of the proposed combination had so far been 
consummated that, as per the terms of the SPA, the Acquirers could not 
in any case have consummated the proposed combination, as the same 
was to be done along with the primary acquisition of Asia Financial 
(Indonesia) Pte. Ltd, which in turn held approximately 67.37 per cent of 
the equity share capital of an Indonesian Bank, PT Bank Danamon 
Indonesia Tbk, by DBSH. As observed above, an earlier transaction in 
July 2011 involving a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Temasek was 
also not notified to the Commission under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of 
the Act. 
 
19. Having carefully considered all relevant factors, including the 
seriousness of the violation, the various submissions of the Acquirers, 
the mitigating as well as the aggravating factors etc, the Commission 
decides that the submission of the Acquirers for not levying any penalty 

                       COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 12 of 13 
 
under the provisions of Section 43A of the Act for not giving notice to 
the Commission within the time prescribed under the provisions of sub-
section (2) of Section 6 of the Act is not agreed to, and an appropriate 
penalty needs to be imposed on the Acquirers.  
 
20. As per the details provided in the notice, the value of assets and turnover 
of the Acquirers and DBSH are as follows: 
 
Details of Assets and Turnover 
Enterprise(s) 
Asset 
Turnover 
Zulia 
0 
0 
Kinder 
0 
0 
Temasek* 
(in SGD million) 
302600 
83500 
DBSH** 
(in SGD million) 
340847 
7631 
DBSH* (in India)  
(in INR crores) 
36386 
1063 
*for the financial year ended 31.03.2012 **for the financial year ended 31.12.2011 
 
21. In terms of Section 43A of the Act, if any person or enterprise who fails 
to give notice under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, the 
Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a penalty which 
may extend to one per cent, of the total turnover or the assets, whichever 
is higher, of such a combination. It is therefore observed that in terms of 
Section 43A of the Act, the maximum penalty that may be imposed on 
the Acquirers could be one per cent of the total combined assets of the 
combination of the Acquirers and DBSH, as depicted in the table above. 
However, considering the response of the Acquirers to the show cause 
notice, submissions made by the Acquirers through their legal 
representatives in the course of the personal hearing before the 
Commission held on 1st August, 2013, additional submissions made on 
1st August, 2013 by the Acquirers, particularly the fact that the Acquirers 
had voluntarily given the notice under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the 
Act before the consummation of the combination, and also the fact that 
the proposed combination was pursuant to an acquisition of the 
shareholding of one foreign enterprise by another foreign enterprise, the 
Commission considers it appropriate to impose a penalty of INR 
50,00,000/-(INR Fifty Lakhs only) on the Acquirers. The Acquirers shall 

                       COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 13 of 13 
 
pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of this 
order.  
 
22. The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Acquirers accordingly. 
 
       
(Ashok Chawla) 
Chairperson 
  
(Geeta Gouri) 
  Member 
 
(Anurag Goel) 
  Member 
 
(M. L. Tayal) 
Member 
 
(S.N. Dhingra) 
Member 
 
(S.L. Bunker) 
Member 
