 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
C-2016/03/384                                                                                                                       Page 1 of 8 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
  (Combination Registration No. C-2016/03/384) 
 
9th June, 2017 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 against Future Consumer Enterprise 
Limited in relation to Combination Registration No. C-2016/03/384 
 
1. 
On 21st March, 2016, the Competition Commission of India (“Commission”) received a 
notice given by Future Consumer Enterprise Limited (“FCEL” or “Acquirer”) for 
acquisition of consumer products division business (“CPD Business”) of Grasim Industries 
Limited (“Grasim”) by FCEL. (Hereinafter, FCEL and Grasim are collectively referred to as 
the “Parties”).  
 
Background 
 
2. 
The Commission, on the basis of media report, initiated an inquiry into the abovesaid 
acquisition of CPD Business of Grasim by FCEL and vide its letter dated 20th August, 2015, 
directed FCEL to provide data / information on the asset and turnover of the Parties. Based 
on submission dated 15th September, 2015, of FCEL, the Commission took suo motu 
cognizance of the transaction and vide letter dated 7th January, 2016, issued direction to 
FCEL to file notice in Form I within stipulated time on receipt of the communication.  
 
3. 
FCEL, vide its letters dated 5th February, 2016 and 17th February, 2016, contended that the 
said transaction was exempt from any notification requirement owing to nominal assets and 
turnover of the CPD Business, and requested the Commission to recall its direction. The 
Commission noted the submissions of FCEL and vide letter dated 2nd March, 2016 directed 
FCEL to comply with its earlier directions. Accordingly, on 21st March, 2016, FCEL filed 
notice in respect of the said combination (bearing combination case Registration No.: C-
2016/03/384). 
 
4. 
The Commission considered and approved the combination under sub-section (1) of Section 
31 of the Act on 11th May, 2016. The said decision was taken without prejudice to any 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
C-2016/03/384                                                                                                                       Page 2 of 8 
 
penalty which may be imposed or any prosecution which may be initiated against FCEL in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act. 
 
Proceedings under Section 43A of the Act 
  
5. 
In terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, any person or an enterprise, who or which 
proposes to enter into a combination, is required to give notice to the Commission, disclosing 
the details of the combination, within thirty days of execution of any agreement or other 
document for acquisition. Further, sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of the Act states that no 
combination shall come into effect until 210 days have passed from the day on which a 
notice regarding the combination has been given to the Commission under sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 of the Act or the Commission has passed orders on the combination under Section 
31 of the Act, whichever is earlier.  
 
6. 
Sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act reads as under: 
 
“…… any person or enterprise, who or which proposes to enter into a combination, shall give 
notice to the Commission………. disclosing the details of the proposed combination, within 
thirty days of…….… execution of any agreement or other document for acquisition referred to 
in clause (a) of section 5 or acquiring of control referred to in clause (b) of that section” 
(emphasis added) 
 
7. 
Further, sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of the Act reads as under: 
 
“No combination shall come into effect until two hundred and ten days have passed from the day 
on which the notice has been given to the Commission under sub-section (2) or the Commission 
has passed orders under section 31, whichever is earlier”. 
 
8. 
For the purpose of the combination, FCEL entered into a Business Transfer Agreement 
(“BTA”) with Grasim on 22nd May, 2015. As per the requirement of the Act, the notice in 
respect of the combination ought to have been filed by FCEL within 30 days of the execution 
of the BTA. However, FCEL filed the notice in Form I only on 21st March, 2016, after the 
Commission took suo moto cognizance of the combination, with a delay of approximately 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
C-2016/03/384                                                                                                                       Page 3 of 8 
 
275 days. Also, FCEL has given effect to the said combination prior to statutory timelines of 
two hundred and ten days.  
 
9. 
In view of the above, the Commission was of the prima facie opinion that FCEL not only 
failed to give notice of the combination within the time stipulated under sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 of the Act but also consummated the same, in contravention of sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 read with sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of the Act. The Commission observed that 
failure to give notice in accordance with sub-section (2) of Section 6 read with sub-section 
(2A) of Section 6 of the Act attracts penalty under Section 43A of the Act.  
 
10. 
Accordingly, the Commission, in its meeting held on 11th May, 2016, decided to initiate 
proceedings under Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the Competition 
Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009 (“General Regulations”). A show cause 
notice was issued to FCEL on 8th June, 2016 (“SCN”) under Section 43A of the Act read 
with Regulation 48 of General Regulations to explain, in writing, within 15 days of the 
receipt of the SCN as to why penalty should not be imposed on FCEL for consummating the 
said combination without filing a notice in respect of the abovesaid combination, thereby 
contravening provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 6 and sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of 
the Act. FCEL filed its response to the SCN vide letters dated 23rd June, 2016, 21st July, 2016 
and 8th August, 2016 (“Responses to SCN”). 
 
Submissions of FCEL 
 
11. 
The Commission, in its meeting held on 15th November, 2016, considered the Responses to 
SCN and decided to grant a personal hearing to FCEL, as per their request. The authorized 
representative of FCEL appeared before the Commission on 29th November, 2016. The 
Commission noted that vide its written and oral submissions, FCEL has made, inter alia, the 
following submissions: 
 
11.1  The combination was exempt from the provisions of the Act by virtue of the Notification 
No. S.O. 482(E) dated 4th March, 2011(“Target Exemption” / “De Minimis 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
C-2016/03/384                                                                                                                       Page 4 of 8 
 
Exemption”)1. FCEL has submitted that it was under a bona fide belief that the 
transaction does not amount to a notifiable combination under the Act as the Target 
Exemption would be applicable to the target business, i.e., the assets and turnover of the 
relevant business being acquired and not the entire assets and turnover of the seller / target 
enterprise. Thus, filing would only have been required had the thresholds contained in the 
Target Exemption been applied to the ultimate parent of the target business i.e., Grasim, 
and not to the CPD Business. It was erroneous on the part of the Commission to have 
considered the value of assets and turnover of Grasim, i.e., the seller entity, as opposed to 
the actual business being acquired, i.e., the CPD Business, while assessing the 
applicability of the Target Exemption. 
 
11.2 FCEL has argued that the target (i.e. CPD Business), which is an “unincorporated 
business” should qualify as an “enterprise” and the thresholds under the Target Exemption 
should apply to such an “unincorporated business” which is being purchased by FCEL. It 
has been further submitted that if this is not held to be the correct position, i.e., an 
“unincorporated business” is not held to be an “enterprise”, the acquisition of the target 
(i.e. CPD Business) will fall outside the scope of Section 5 of the Act as it applies to the 
acquisition of one or more “enterprises” by one or more persons or a 
merger/amalgamation of “enterprises”, which would not necessitate a filing of notice. 
 
11.3 FCEL further argued that as per the rule of construction, if the legislature uses the same 
expression in the same statute at two places or more, the same interpretation should be 
given to that expression unless context requires otherwise. Accordingly, if the term 
“enterprise” includes an unincorporated business” for the purposes of Section 5 of the 
Act, then the term “enterprise” in the Target Exemption should also be read to include 
such “unincorporated business” and vice-versa. 
 
11.4 On the basis of the foregoing, FCEL has argued that the transaction falls in category of De 
Minimis Exemption on account of marginal asset [….] of the target business (i.e. CPD 
Business) in India, which is much below the prescribed threshold of INR 250 crores and 
turnover of [….] in India, significantly below the prescribed threshold of INR 750 crores.   
                                                          
1 As amended by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs Corrigendum No. SO 1218(E) dated 27th May 2011. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
C-2016/03/384                                                                                                                       Page 5 of 8 
 
11.5 FCEL has further submitted that the objective behind the Target Exemption is to exclude 
transactions from being notified to the Commission, where the target being acquired is not 
significant enough to cause any competition concerns. 
 
11.6 In terms of assessing whether a transaction has an appreciable adverse effect on 
competition (“AAEC”) or not, it is only the actual business segment being acquired that 
ought to be examined by the Commission. In light of this, it is only the value of asset 
and/or turnover from the relevant business, which should be considered, while assessing 
thresholds. Furthermore, the transaction does not cause nor is likely to cause an AAEC, as 
has been held by the Commission in its order under sub-section (1) of Section 31 of the 
Act. As the transaction in the current case does not cause any AAEC in India, no inquiry 
should have been initiated under sub-section (1) of Section 20 of the Act. 
 
11.7 In addition, it has also been submitted that such narrow interpretation of Section 5 and 
Section 6 of the Act by the Commission would render the provisions of the Target 
Exemption nugatory and violate Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution of India, amounting 
to unreasonable restrictions on the freedom of trade and profession guaranteed under the 
said Article. 
 
11.8 FCEL has submitted certain mitigating factors such as there was no intention on the part 
of FCEL to conceal the transaction and any failure on the part of FCEL was inadvertent. 
FCEL has further requested that since combination is limited to the personal care division 
of the target, i.e., the CPD Business of the target, only the assets and turnover of the 
relevant business should be taken into consideration in case penalty, if at all, is imposed 
on FCEL. 
 
Observations of the Commission 
 
12. 
The Commission having examined and analysed the submissions of FCEL, observed as 
follows: 
 
12.1 The said transaction is a notifiable combination (for the reasons set out in the latter 
sections) and does not qualify for the De Minimis Exemption and accordingly, the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
C-2016/03/384                                                                                                                       Page 6 of 8 
 
Commission proceeds under Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the 
General Regulations. 
 
12.2 In relation to the contention of FCEL that an “unincorporated business” should qualify as 
an “enterprise” and if this is not held to be the correct position, the acquisition of the 
target (i.e. CPD Business) will fall outside the scope of Section 5 of the Act; the 
Commission observes that this line of argument is not maintainable as Section 5(a)(i) of 
the Act provides that “…whose control, shares, voting rights or assets have been acquired 
or are being acquired…”. Thus, inclusion of word “assets” in the above said provision 
emphasizes upon the fact that Section 5 of the Act considers both acquisition of enterprise 
and acquisition of assets of an enterprise (which has been termed by FCEL as 
“unincorporated business”) as combination, among others, subject to the meeting of 
thresholds by the parties to the combination.  
 
12.3 In relation to the contention of FCEL that as per the rule of construction, if the term 
“enterprise” includes an unincorporated business” for the purposes of Section 5 of the 
Act, then the term “enterprise” in the Target Exemption should also be read to include 
such “unincorporated business” and vice-versa, the Commission observes that the Target 
Exemption leaves no ambiguity as it only provides that assets and turnover of the target 
“enterprise” is to be considered for looking into the aspect of de Minimis exemption for a 
combination. Thus, non-inclusion of word “assets” / “unincorporated business” (as coined 
by FCEL) etc. in the Target Exemption leaves no room for interpreting the word 
“enterprise”. In this regard, the decisional practice of the Commission has been consistent. 
Thus, assets and / or turnover of a business division of an enterprise, such as the CPD 
Business, in the instant case, cannot be taken into account for considering assets and / or 
turnover for Target Exemption.  
 
12.4 Hence, the Target Exemption, which exempts an acquisition from the provisions of 
Section 5 of the Competition Act, where the target enterprise has either assets of less than 
INR 250 crores (erstwhile thresholds) in India or turnover of less than INR 750 crores 
(erstwhile thresholds) in India, would apply to Grasim and not to the CPD Business of 
Grasim. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
C-2016/03/384                                                                                                                       Page 7 of 8 
 
12.5 In relation to the contention of FCEL that the Commission does not have any informal 
guidance on its website on the manner in which the Commission calculates the value of 
assets and turnover for purposes of the jurisdictional thresholds of Section 5 of the Act, it 
is made clear that the Commission offers pre-filing consultation to anyone which requires 
clarification on the filing requirements. In the instant case, FCEL did not avail of the 
facility and never approached the Commission for any clarification on the filing 
requirements in respect of the present combination.  
 
12.6 As regards the contention of FCEL that the purpose of Target Exemption is to exclude 
transactions from being notified to the Commission, where the target being acquired was 
not significant enough to cause any competition concerns, the Commission observes that 
FCEL has wrongly interpreted the ‘target’ to be a ‘business unit’ instead of ‘enterprise’ as 
per the De Minimis Exemption. Furthermore, once the notification is required under the 
provisions of the Act it cannot be presumed by the parties to the combination that a given 
combination may not raise AAEC in India; and it is prerogative of the Commission to 
assess whether a combination is capable of raising any AAEC concern in India or 
otherwise. Thus, the presumption of the parties to the combination that a transaction is not 
likely to raise any AAEC in India, does not waive off their regulatory obligation from 
notifying such combination(s).  
 
13. 
As discussed in detail above, in the instant case there is a contravention of the provisions of 
sub-section (2) of Section 6 and sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of the Act as FCEL did not 
notify the combination within stipulated time and consummated the same. Thus, the 
Commission finds no merits in the arguments made by FCEL regarding non – filing of the 
notice. 
 
14. 
The fact of approval of the combination on assessment that it does not raise any AAEC in 
India, based on analysis of various factors does not confer any immunity to the appellants 
from being penalized under Section 43A of the Act for failure to comply with the regulatory 
obligation(s) of the party(ies) under the Act. Moreover, the Act clearly provides, irrespective 
of whether there is any AAEC or not, mandatory regime for notifying a combination to the 
Commission. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
C-2016/03/384                                                                                                                       Page 8 of 8 
 
15. 
Accordingly, in terms of Section 43A of the Act, a maximum penalty of one per cent of the 
combined value of worldwide assets of the Parties [….] can be imposed which comes out to 
be [….]. However, considering the totality of the facts of the case and explanation given by 
the Parties, the Commission deemed it appropriate to impose a penalty of INR 10,00,000/- 
(INR ten lakh only) on FCEL. 
 
16. 
FCEL shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of this order. 
 
17. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to FCEL accordingly. 
