     
 Page 1 of 14 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2021/03/824) 
 
Date: 17 March 2022 
 
Proceedings against Tata Power Company Limited under Section 43A of the 
Competition Act, 2002 
 
 
CORAM:  
 
Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta 
Chairperson 
 
Ms. Sangeeta Verma 
Member 
 
Mr. Bhagwant Singh Bishnoi 
Member 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
Appearances during the hearing: 
 
For Tata Power                          
Company  Limited 
Mr. Sajan Poovayya, Senior Advocate with Ms. 
Raksha Agrawal, Mr. Vaibhav Choukse, Ms. Aditi 
Khanna, Advocates and Mr. Ashish Kumar, 
representative of the Tata Power Company Limited 
 
 
1. 
This Order shall dispose the proceedings under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 
2002 (Act), initiated against Tata Power Company Limited (Acquirer/TPCL), in 
relation to the acquisition of 51% of equity share capital of Western Electricity Supply 

 
                                        
 
 
 
                                                                                                            Page 2 of 14 
 
Company of Orissa Limited (WESCO) by TPCL from Grid Corporation of Odisha 
Limited (GRIDCO), hereinafter referred to as WESCO Combination or 
Combination. 
  
2. 
The WESCO Combination was notified to the Competition Commission of India 
(Commission/CCI) by TPCL on 30 March 2021 under Section 6(2) of the Act. The 
Commission, in its meeting held on 7 June 2021, approved the WESCO Combination 
under Section 31(1) of the Act without prejudice to the proceedings under Section 43A 
of the Act.  
 
Background  
 
3. 
On 25 November 1998, WESCO was incorporated as a 100% subsidiary of GRIDCO. 
WESCO is engaged in the distribution of power in the licensed areas of Rourkela, Burla 
(Sambalpur), Bhawanipatna (Kalahandi), Bolangir and Bargarh in the State of Odisha 
(Licensed Areas). On 1 April 1999, 51% of equity share capital in WESCO and the 
management thereof, was transferred to BSES Limited (Now R-Infra Limited), through 
competitive bidding process. By way of an order dated 4 March 2015 passed under 
Section 19 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (Electricity Act), the Odisha Electricity 
Regulatory Commission (OERC) revoked the license of R-Infra Limited, managing 
WESCO and appointed the Chairman cum Managing Director of GRIDCO as the 
administrator for the operation and management of WESCO Utility under Section 
20(1)(d) of the Electricity Act.  
 
4. 
During the financial year 2020-21, OERC initiated the process of sale of 51% of equity 
share capital of WESCO through a competitive bidding process and issued a request for 
proposal (RFP) inviting bidders. The RFP laid down qualifications, technical and 
financial criteria (collectively referred to as the Eligibility Criteria), based on which, a 
successful bidder was to be selected. TPCL submitted the bid for WESCO and was 
selected as the successful bidder by OERC. 
  

 
                                        
 
 
 
                                                                                                            Page 3 of 14 
 
5. 
Thereafter, OERC issued a Letter of Intent (LOI) to TPCL and directed it to submit an 
acceptance to the LOI within 7 days from the issuance of LOI and comply with the 
conditions of RFP, i.e., submit a performance guarantee, deposit the consideration 
amount and execute the transaction documents within 15 days from issuance of LOI 
(hereinafter, Acquirer Obligations). As per the terms of the LOI, in case TPCL failed 
to comply with the Acquirer Obligations, OERC could encash the bank guarantee. 
Further, such failure could also result in TPCL being disqualified as the successful 
bidder, and OERC could forfeit the bid security submitted by TPCL (unless it received 
an extension of time for the same). TPCL followed OERC directions, gave its 
acceptance to LOI and deposited the consideration and performance guarantee. 
Thereafter, OERC passed a Vesting Order and the transaction documents, namely, Share 
Acquisition Agreement (SAA), Shareholders’ Agreement (SHA), Bulk Power 
Transmission Agreement (BPTA) and Bulk Supply Agreement (BSA), were executed. 
The timeline of the events in the WESCO Combination are summarised in the table 
below:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serial No. 
Events 
Timeline 
1.  
Initiation of bidding process by OERC 
14 August 2020 
2.  
Submission of bid by TPCL 
14 September 2020 
3.  
Issuance of LOI by OERC 
3 December 2020 
4.  
Acceptance of LOI by TPCL 
6 December 2020 
5.  
Payment of consideration 
22 December 2020 
6.  
Passing of Vesting Order by OERC 
28 December 2020 
7.  
Applicability of Vesting Order 
1 January 2021 
8.  
Execution of SAA 
7 January 2021 
9.  
Execution of SHA 
7 January 2021 
10.  
Execution of BPTA 
Not executed before filing 
11.  
Execution of BSA  
2 February 2021 
12.  
Filing of notice with the Commission 
30 March 2021 
(C-2021/03/824) 

 
                                        
 
 
 
                                                                                                            Page 4 of 14 
 
Initiation of Proceedings before the Commission under Section 43A of the Act 
 
6. 
During the assessment of the WESCO Combination, the Commission noted that all the 
steps of the WESCO Combination had been completed and the combination had been 
consummated before filing of the notice. It was noted by the Commission that TPCL 
should have filed the notice for approval of the Commission on the acceptance of the 
LOI; however, it proceeded to consummate the Combination without doing so. Thus, the 
Commission was of the prima facie view that TPCL had not only failed to give notice of 
the combination within the stipulated time under Section 6(2) of the Act but also 
consummated the same before giving notice to the Commission in contravention of the 
provisions of Section 6(2) read with Section 6(2A) of the Act. Hence, the Commission 
decided to issue a Show Cause Notice (SCN) to TPCL under the provisions of Section 
43A of the Act.  
 
7. 
Accordingly, on 5 July 2021, the SCN was issued to TPCL under the provisions of 
Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of 
India (General) Regulations, 2009, to explain, in writing, within 15 days of receipt of 
such communication as to why it should not be found to be in contravention of the Act 
and why a penalty should not be imposed on it in terms of the provisions of the Section 
43A of the Act. TPCL, after taking due extension of time, submitted its response to the 
SCN on 9 August 2021, with a request for a hearing in the matter. The Commission 
considered the request and allowed the same. Subsequently, the arguments of the 
authorised representatives of TPCL were heard on 12 January 2022.  
 
Submissions of TPCL 
 
8. 
In response to the SCN, TPCL, inter alia, submitted that the WESCO Combination is 
different from a typical commercial transaction as it is end-to-end regulated by OERC. It 
was submitted that the entire process of sale of the WESCO was regulated and governed 
by the provisions of Section 20 of the Electricity Act, which empowered the Appropriate 
Electricity Regulatory Commission (in this case, OERC) to select the bidder and vest the 
WESCO in terms of Section 21 of the Electricity Act. Thus, TPCL undertook the 

 
                                        
 
 
 
                                                                                                            Page 5 of 14 
 
transaction pursuant to a bidding process initiated by OERC under Section 20 of the 
Electricity Act after revocation of the distribution licence of the licensee under Section 
19 of the Electricity Act, and thereafter, a Vesting Order was passed by OERC vesting 
the WESCO in its favour upon compliance of all the conditions as prescribed in the 
RFP.  
 
9. 
TPCL submitted that it believed that OERC had the exclusive jurisdiction to regulate 
‘combinations’ in the electricity sector. In this regard, the learned counsel for TPCL 
pointed out that Section 60 of Electricity Act empowers OERC to issue appropriate 
directions if, in its opinion, such acquisition / combination will cause an adverse effect 
on competition (AEC) in the electricity market in India. Further, reference was made to 
Sections 173, 174 and 175 of the Electricity Act which, inter alia, state that the 
provisions of the Electricity Act shall have an overriding effect, except in cases 
pertaining to provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 or the Atomic Energy 
Act, 1962 or the Railways Act, 1989. Basis the foregoing, it was averred that the 
legislature had not put the Act amongst the statutes whose provisions were to prevail 
over the provisions of the Electricity Act, and therefore, exclusive jurisdiction was 
provided to the sectoral regulator, i.e., OERC, in the matter concerning competition in 
the electricity sector.  
 
10. 
Further, to support the argument of exclusive and overriding jurisdiction of OERC, 
reliance was placed upon the judgement dated 16 February 2017, passed by the 
erstwhile Hon’ble Competition Appellate Tribunal (COMPAT) in Appeal No. 33 of 
2016, titled Anand Prakash Agarwal v. Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited 
(Anand Prakash Case), wherein, while considering the conflict between the Electricity 
Act and the Act in the context of Section 174 and Section 175 of the Electricity Act, it 
was observed as follows:  
 
“18.9 Thus, in the case of a conflict between the provisions of the Electricity Act 
and the Competition Act, the former will override because Section 174 of the 
Electricity Act would get attracted and section 175 of the Electricity Act will have 

 
                                        
 
 
 
                                                                                                            Page 6 of 14 
 
to yield. The contention of the Appellant, that the Competition Act also has a non-
obstante clause in Section 60 of the Act giving it an overriding effect, does not 
assist his case because the Electricity Act, 2003 is admittedly a later special 
statute and in the event of irreconcilable inconsistency between the Electricity Act 
and the Competition Act, the former would override even though the Competition 
Act contained the non-obstante clause in Section 60 of the Act. We agree with the 
counsel of DHBVN that the principle of leges posteriores priores contrarias 
abrogant upheld by the Supreme Court in the case of Solidaire India Ltd. vs. Fair 
Growth Financial Service Ltd. – (2001) 3 SCC 71, will be applicable and the 
Electricity Act would prevail.” 
 
11. 
Furthermore, TPCL submitted that, for the purposes of interpretation of two statutes in 
apparent conflict, the provisions of a general statute must yield to those of a special one, 
i.e., when there is a conflict between general law and special law, special law shall 
prevail. Therefore, in the instant case, the provisions of the Electricity Act, being the 
special statute dealing with the electricity sector in India, would override the provisions 
of the Act. However, if both the Electricity Act and the Act are considered special 
statutes, then the principle of leges posteriores priores contrarias abrogant will be 
applicable, i.e., the later special statute will prevail, being the Electricity Act.  
 
12. 
TPCL submitted that, notwithstanding the above, when OERC, vide its letter dated 29 
January 2021 (NESCO Letter), directed TPCL to comply with the requirements of the 
Act for the first time, it filed a notice with the Commission regarding the acquisition of 
51% equity share capital of North Eastern Electricity Supply Company of Odisha 
Limited (NESCO Combination)1 on 8 February 2021, in compliance with the NESCO 
Letter.  Subsequently, on 30 March 2021, given the direction in the NESCO 
Combination, TPCL voluntarily filed a notice with the Commission for the WESCO 
Combination as well, although the NESCO Letter did not give any specific directions 
for the same.  
 
                                                          
1 CCI Combination Registration  No. C-2021/01/813 (NESCO/TPCL) 

 
                                        
 
 
 
                                                                                                            Page 7 of 14 
 
13. 
Based on the above, TPCL submitted that it is committed to comply with all laws, 
including the Act, and it genuinely believed earlier that OERC had exclusive jurisdiction 
in the matter. However, when it received the NESCO Letter from OERC in the NESCO 
Combination, it filed a notice for the WESCO Combination with the Commission 
voluntarily as a good corporate citizen and out of abundant caution, even though no such 
letter or direction was issued by OERC.  
 
14. 
Further, TPCL submitted that it provided full cooperation in inquiry and provided all 
documents to the Commission required for its assessment. Moreover, there were no 
previous instances where TPCL had been found to be in violation of the provisions of 
the Act. Also, there is no finding of appreciable adverse effect on competition (AAEC) 
in the respective relevant markets by the Commission or a finding of AEC by OERC.  
Furthermore, there was immense pressure from OERC to close the respective 
transactions as soon as possible, including continuance of the proceedings and the 
process before OERC even during the COVID-19 pandemic.  
 
15. 
In view of the foregoing, TPCL prayed that no penalty, or only a nominal penalty be 
levied upon it. 
 
Analysis and Findings of the Commission 
 
16. 
The Commission has considered the submissions of TPCL as well as heard the 
arguments advanced by the learned counsel in the matter. Before proceeding further, the 
Commission deems it appropriate to first deal with the issue of jurisdiction, whereby it 
is argued by TPCL that OERC has exclusive jurisdiction to regulate the combination 
pursuant to Section 60 of the Electricity Act, and that the operation of competition law is 
overridden by the non-obstante provision in Section 173, 174 and 175 of the Electricity 
Act. In this regard, it is highlighted that the issue of conflict or overlap in the two 
statutes, namely, the Act and the Electricity Act, has already been dealt by the 

 
                                        
 
 
 
                                                                                                            Page 8 of 14 
 
Commission in the matter of Shri Arun Mishra and State of U.P. & Ors. (Case no. 43 of 
2017)2,  wherein it was observed that: 
 
“ 15. With regard to the objection raised against the Commission’s jurisdiction, it 
is  noted that though the  Electricity  Act,  2003  is  a  special  legislation 
governing, inter-alia,  matters  pertaining  to  generation,  transmission  and 
supply  of  electricity,  it  cannot  be  said  that  all  matters  arising  in  the 
electricity industry will be governed exclusively by the said statute. Various 
provisions   of Electricity   Act,   2003 and   the   policies   made   thereunder 
unequivocally   expresses   the   intention   of   the   legislature   to   promote 
competition. It is unconceivable that by inserting Sections 174 and 175, the 
legislature had intended to oust the jurisdiction of the Commission. 
…… 
17. The latin maxim generalia specialibus non derogant suggests that where a 
general statute and a special statute relating to the same subject matter cannot be 
reconciled, the special statute ordinarily will prevail. And in case where a subject 
matter is covered by two statutes, both of which are special, the one enforced on a 
later date ordinarily prevails. However, these rules of statutory construction are not 
absolute in nature; rather an attempt should be aimed at, in case of conflicting 
provisions, to give effect to both the provisions to avoid redundancy. This position 
has been reiterated by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Ashoka Marketing Limited v. 
Punjab National Bank [(1990) 4 SCC 406], wherein it was held:  
 
“The principle which emerges from these decisions is that in the case of 
inconsistency between the provisions of two enactments, both of which can be 
regarded as Special in nature, the conflict has to be resolved by reference to the 
purpose and policy underlying the two enactments and the clear intendment 
conveyed by the language of the relevant provisions therein. We propose to consider 
this matter in the light of this principle.”  
 
                                                          
2 Order under Section 26(2) of the Act 

 
                                        
 
 
 
                                                                                                            Page 9 of 14 
 
18. It is noted that both the statutes under consideration, i.e. the Electricity Act, 
2003 as well as the Act, are special statutes with designated spheres of operation. 
The former aims at regulating activities in the electricity industry and the latter 
aims at promoting competition in every sphere and sector of the economy. The 
jurisdiction of the Act extends to all sectors of the economy and sectors regulated 
by sector specific laws such as telecommunication, electricity, petroleum, 
insurance etc. are also included within the ambit of the Act for the competition 
related matters/issues. To this extent, there is no conflict as both these statutes 
have their respective and mutually exclusive regulatory regimes. This observation 
is in sync with the Commission’s decision in Case No. 91 of 2014 (Open Access 
Users Association vs. Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited & Ors.) decided on 
29th September, 2015 that the mandate of the Commission is to eliminate 
practices having adverse effect on competition, promote and sustain competition, 
protect the interests of consumers and ensure freedom of trade carried on by 
other participants, in markets in India. Sectoral regulators focus on the dynamics 
of specific sectors, whereas the Commission focuses on functioning of the markets 
by way of increasing efficiency through competition; their roles being 
complementary and supplementary as per the common objective of obtaining 
maximum benefit for the consumers.  
 
19. Thus, the Commission is of the view that there is no issue of conflict of 
jurisdiction in the present case which cannot be reconciled by adopting 
harmonious construction between the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003 and 
the provisions of the Act. Though Electricity Act, 2003 is a special statute for the 
purposes of dealing with electricity matters, the Competition Act, 2002 is a 
special statute for regulating competition in the market. For any competition 
related matter, the Act is a special statute, mandated to promote and regulate 
competition in the market. This position has been reiterated in the case of 
Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (Publ) vs. CCI and others, 2016 (66) PTC 58 
(Del), by the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi, wherein the question of jurisdiction of 
the Commission in a matter related to abuse by an IPR holder was considered. 

 
                                        
 
 
 
                                                                                                            Page 10 of 14 
 
While dealing with the issue of jurisdiction, the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi held 
that there is no irreconcilable repugnancy or conflict between the Competition 
Act and the Patents Act, and in the absence of any irreconcilable conflict between 
the two legislations, the jurisdiction of the Commission to entertain complaints for 
abuse of dominance in respect of patent rights cannot be ousted.  
 
20. Based on the foregoing, the Commission is of the view that, keeping in view 
the object and purpose underlying both the enactments viz., the Electricity Act, 
2003 and the Act (i.e. Competition Act, 2002), it does not appear that the 
provisions of the Act are in any way superseded by the Electricity Act, 2003, in 
the context of the facts and allegations under consideration. The mandate of the 
Act is vast and its jurisdiction cannot be perceived to be ousted by the Electricity 
Act, 2003. …” 
 
17. 
Similar observations were made by the Commission in the order passed under Section 
26(1) of the Act in the matter of HPCL-Mittal Pipelines Limited and Gujarat energy 
Transmission Corporation Limited & others (Case no. 39 of 2017). Further, in the said 
order, as regards the judgement of the erstwhile Hon’ble COMPAT in the Anand 
Prakash case, the Commission had observed that  
“41 .… ratio of the hon'ble erstwhile COMPAT clearly indicates that the said 
judgment was only with respect to matters pertaining to electricity tariff approved 
by the Appropriate Commission under the EA03. 
42. Certainly, EA03 is a special legislation governing, inter-alia, matters 
pertaining to generation, transmission and supply of electricity. However, to argue 
that in all matters in the electricity industry EA03 would prevail over the provisions 
of the Act, because of the presence of a sectoral regulator, would go against the 
spirit of the said statute as well as against the purpose for which the Act was 
enforced…..” 
 

 
                                        
 
 
 
                                                                                                            Page 11 of 14 
 
18. 
Since TPCL has also placed reliance upon the same case to argue exclusive jurisdiction 
of OERC, the Commission reiterates its observations in the aforesaid matter for the 
purposes of the instant case. 
 
19. 
Further, the position that the sectoral regulator does not have exclusive jurisdiction 
under the Electricity Act is also supported by the case of Shri Neeraj Malhotra, 
Advocate vs. North Delhi Power Ltd. & Ors. [Case No. 6/2009], wherein it was alleged 
that only the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) under the Electricity 
Act had jurisdiction to deal with issues relating to the anti-competitive behaviour of 
electricity distribution companies. The Commission, in this case, had referred the matter 
to DERC for its comments, and DERC, in its communication to the Commission, had 
categorically opined that “matters relating to electricity tariff have to be decided as per 
the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003 and DERC Regulations. Accordingly, CCI 
may not be appropriate forum to deal with such issue. However, specific issues alluded 
to by the petitioner accusing the Discoms of abuse of their dominant position may be 
looked into by the CCI in terms of the Competition Act, 2002.” 
 
20. 
Likewise, in the instant case, OERC, in the NESCO Letter, noted the provisions 
contained in Section 60 of the Electricity Act, then expressly directed TPCL that, 
“…notwithstanding the confirmation regarding conformity with relevant Indian Laws & 
Regulations already provided in the covering letter forming part of your bid, TPCL is 
required to comply with the requirements of Competition Act, 2002 and furnish a 
certificate on such compliances to OERC.” From the aforesaid paragraph of the NESCO 
Letter, it is clear that OERC also recognises the jurisdiction of the Commission in the 
matter of regulation of combinations in the electricity sector and has, therefore, directed 
TPCL to comply with the provisions of the Act. 
 
21. 
Thus, based on the above, the Commission is of the opinion that OERC cannot be said 
to have exclusive jurisdiction in relation to the WESCO Combination, and that it was 
incumbent upon TPCL to file a notice with the Commission under Section 6(2) of the 

 
                                        
 
 
 
                                                                                                            Page 12 of 14 
 
Act in respect of the WESCO Combination prior to the consummation. Such obligation 
was not subject to OERC giving directions to TPCL. 
 
22. 
It is to be noted that the merger control regime in India is mandatory and suspensory in 
nature. Section 5 provides the assets and turnover criteria to determine which 
acquisitions of control / shares / voting rights / assets or mergers and amalgamations will 
amount to combination under the Act. Section 6(2) of the Act mandates parties to give a 
notice in respect of the proposed combination. In case of acquisitions, the trigger for 
notifying the transaction to the Commission is the execution of any agreement or other 
document for the acquisition of control / shares / voting rights / assets referred to in 
Section 5(a) or acquiring of control referred to in Section 5(b) of the Act. Section 6(2A) 
of the Act provides that a combination notified to the Commission shall not come into 
effect for a period of 210 days from the date of notification or earlier approval by the 
Commission. The provisions in effect imply that the mergers and acquisitions that can 
be considered combinations in terms of Section 5 of the Act are mandatorily notifiable 
to the Commission and therefore, cannot be consummated, either entirely or in part, 
without approval from the Commission, unless they are exempted by the Government of 
India notification or are combinations that fall under Schedule 1 of Combination 
Regulation, in respect of which a notice need not normally be filed. Based on the 
submission of TPCL, it is noted that the WESCO Combination was neither exempted by 
any Government of India notification nor covered under Schedule 1 of Combination 
Regulations. Also, it is pertinent to note that the mandatory regime for notifying a 
proposed combination to the Commission is applicable irrespective of whether or not the 
combination causes any AAEC in India. 
 
23. 
Thus, in light of the above, the Commission finds that TPCL, by acquiring 51% of 
equity share capital of WESCO without filing a notice with the Commission in terms of 
Section 6(2) of the Act prior to consummation, has contravened the provisions of  
Section 6(2A) of the Act, and hence, is liable for penalty under Section 43A of the Act, 
which reads as under: 
 

 
                                        
 
 
 
                                                                                                            Page 13 of 14 
 
“If any person or enterprise fails to give notice under Section 6(2) of the Act, the 
Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a penalty which may 
extend to one per cent of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, of 
such a combination” 
 
24. 
It is to be noted that Section 43A of the Act prescribes the extent of penalty that can be 
levied for failure to file notice; however, the Commission has sufficient discretion to 
consider the conduct of the parties and circumstances of the case to arrive at an 
appropriate amount of penalty. 
 
25. 
Based on the submissions of TPCL, the Commission notes that, in the instant case, 
TPCL was under an obligation to comply with the strict timelines imposed upon it by 
OERC. Therefore, while, on the one hand, it was incumbent upon TPCL to file a notice 
with the Commission under Section 6(2) of the Act on its acceptance of LOI, on the 
other hand, it was also incumbent on TPCL to meet the timelines of OERC and give 
effect to the WESCO Combination immediately, subsequent to the issuance of LOI. 
Further, TPCL was faced with ambiguity emanating from overlapping provisions in the 
two special acts and had no specific direction from OERC, such as in case of the 
NESCO Combination, to comply with the provisions of the Act. Nevertheless, pursuant 
to the receipt of the NESCO Letter, TPCL filed a notice with the Commission in relation 
to the WESCO Combination voluntarily and fully cooperated during the inquiry, 
supplying all requisite material / documents in response to the information requirement 
of the Commission, which formed the basis of the findings of contravention.  
 
26. 
While all the above factors do not absolve TPCL of its obligation to file a notice prior to 
the consummation of the WESCO Combination, they can at best be considered 
mitigating factors. It is reiterated that, under the mandatory and suspensory regime 
under the Act, it became incumbent upon the Acquirer to file a notice with the 
Commission under Section 6(2) of the Act on acceptance of the LOI for approval of the 
Commission before consummation of any step of the Combination.  
 

 
                                        
 
 
 
                                                                                                            Page 14 of 14 
 
27. 
Thus, considering the facts and circumstances of the case and the conduct of TPCL, 
wherein contravention has been established based on the information voluntarily 
disclosed by TPCL, who have extended full cooperation in furnishing the information, 
the Commission decides to take a lenient view and imposes a nominal penalty of INR 
Five Lakhs (INR 5,00,000/-) on TPCL. TPCL shall pay the penalty within 60 days from 
the date of receipt of this order.  
 
28. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to TPCL accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
