 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
                                          (Combination Registration No. C-2015/06/283) 
 
Page 1 of 5 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
30.12.2015 
 
 
Order u/s 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 (“Act”) in the notice given u/s 6(2) of the Act by: 
 
(a) 
Johnson and Johnson Innovation, Inc. (‘JJDC’),  
(b) 
Ethicon Endo-surgery, Inc. (‘Ethicon’)and  
(c) 
Google Inc. (‘Google’) 
 
CORAM: 
 
Mr. Sudhir Mital 
Member 
 
Mr. U. C. Nahta 
Member 
 
Mr. M. S. Sahoo 
Member 
 
Mr. G. P. Mittal 
Member 
 
Legal representative / Appearances: Mr. Amit Sibal, Sr. Advocate with Mr. Avinash 
Amarnath, Advocate, Vinod Dhall&tt&a, and Ms 
KamyaRajgopal, Advocate, for AZB & Partners.  
 
1. 
On 5thJune 2015, the Competition Commission of India (“Commission”) received a notice 
given under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Competition Act, 2002 (“Act”)by JJDC, 
Ethicon, and Google.(JJDC, Ethicon, and Google are hereinafter collectively referred to as 
“Parties”). 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
                                    (Combination Registration No. C-2015/06/283) 
 
Page 2 of 5 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
2. 
The combination relates to the formation of a greenfield joint venture (“JV”), namely Warren 
Robotics Inc., amongst the Parties, to carry out research and development in respect of robotic 
systems for surgical intervention. The combination involves the transfer of certain assets 
(including intellectual property and related assets) from Google and Ethicon to the JV and 
meets the notification thresholds prescribed under Section 5(a) of the Act read with sub-
regulation (9) of Regulation 5 of the Competition Commission of India (Procedure in regard 
to the transaction of business relating to combinations) Regulations, 2011 (“Combination 
Regulations”).  
 
3. 
On 10th July 2015, the Commission considered and assessed the proposed combination and 
approved the same under sub-section (1) of Section 31 of the Act. While considering the 
combination in its meeting held on 10th July 2015, the Commission also noted that the notice 
was filed after expiry of the statutory time period of 30 (thirty) days provided in Section 6(2) 
of the Act. With regards to the delay, it was noted that the Parties had entered into a Share 
Purchase Agreement dated 24th March 2015 (“SPA 1”) which was subsequently modified by 
an amendment dated 15th May 2015 (“SPA 2”). Accordingly, the notice was given on 5th June 
2015, after a delay of 43 days. It was, therefore, noted that the notice was filed after expiry of 
the statutory time period of 30 (thirty) days provided in Section 6(2) of the Act.  
 
4. 
In view of the foregoing and information on record, the Commission, in its meeting held on 
30th July 2015, directed that penalty proceedings under Section 43A of the Act be initiated 
against the Parties. Accordingly, a show cause notice (“SCN”) was issued to the Parties under 
Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009 
(“General Regulations”), read with Section 43A of the Act, on23rd July 2015, requiring them 
to show cause, in writing, within 15 days of receipt of the same, as to why penalty, in terms 
of Section 43A of the Act, should not be imposed on them. The response to the SCN 
(“Response”) was submitted by the Parties on7th August 2015. 
 
5. 
In its meeting held on 21st September 2015, the Commission considered the Response and 
decided to grant an oral hearing to the Parties. Accordingly, the Parties presented their case 
before the Commission on 20th October 2015. The Commission further deliberated on the 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
                                    (Combination Registration No. C-2015/06/283) 
 
Page 3 of 5 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
written and oral submissions of the Parties in its meeting held on 30th December 2015. The 
Commission noted that the parties have made, inter alia, the following broad submissions: 
 
a. 
The relevant “agreement or other document” for the purposes of sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 of the Act in this case is SPA 2, executed on15th May 2015. This final 
agreement, i.e., SPA 2, was based on SPA 1, which was subject to continuing negotiations 
between the Parties with respect to, in particular, matters relating to merger filings. On 
24th March 2015, the Parties had foreseen that further negotiations would be necessary. 
These continued negotiations were to be undertaken to ensure compliance with applicable 
antitrust laws, including the Act; and 
 
b. Sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act affords discretion as to which agreement or 
document should be deemed relevant for the purposes of triggering the relevant period. 
Given that this discretion is in the hands of the Parties, it would not be rational to interpret 
the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act to consider an agreement which 
does not specify the conditions that must be fulfilled before a transaction is complete (nor 
the rights and obligations of the Parties to the agreement with respect to ensuring that 
these conditions are satisfied) as a binding document under sub-section (2) of Section 6 
of the Act. Accordingly, such an agreement is incomplete and not “definitive” so as to 
serve as the basis for a notice. 
 
6. 
The Commission observed that: 
a. 
Clause 6.13 of SPA 1 provides that “[t]his Agreement (including exhibits hereto), the 
Certificate of Incorporation and other Transaction Agreements constitute the full and 
entire understanding and agreement between the Parties with respect to subject 
matter hereof…”. As a result, SPA 1 constituted the definitive agreement between 
the Parties for the purchase of shares in the JV; 
 
b. It is also noted that SPA 2, which amended SPA 1, is not a standalone agreement 
between the Parties and has, in fact, been referred to as “Amendment No. 1 to Stock 
Purchase Agreement”. Further, it may be noted that SPA 2 provides that “any 
reference to the “date of the Agreement” shall, unless the context expressly requires 
otherwise, refer to March 24, 2015 and any reference to the date of this Letter shall 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
                                    (Combination Registration No. C-2015/06/283) 
 
Page 4 of 5 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
refer to the date first set forth above. Except as expressly amended in Section 1 of 
this Letter, the Purchase Agreement shall apply, control and continue in full force 
and effect as originally constituted and is hereby ratified and affirmed by and/or on 
behalf of each of the Parties”.Thus, the date of the relevant agreement for acquisition 
of shares of the JV is evidently the date of SPA 1; 
 
c. 
Based on the above, it is observed that SPA 2 was merely an amendment to the SPA 
1 and did not constitute an agreement for acquisition of shares, voting rights, control 
or assets, as provided under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. This is also 
evidenced by the content of SPA 2, which amended only the following limited clauses 
of SPA 1, viz., (a) the jurisdictions in which notification is required to be filed; (b) 
extension of the “Outside Date”, i.e., the long stop date for Closing; and (c) reverse 
termination fee payable on termination of SPA 1. The provisions regarding share 
subscription, etc., as provided in the SPA 1 remain unchanged; 
 
d. Based on the foregoing, it is observed that SPA 1, would be the agreement for 
acquisition in terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act and the notice ought to 
have been given by the Parties to the Commission within 30 days of execution of 
SPA 1. However, the notice was given by the Parties to the Commission only on 
5thJune 2015, with a delay of 43 days; and 
 
e. 
With regard to the submission of the Parties that sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the 
Act affords discretion as to which agreement or document should be deemed relevant 
for the purposes of trigger for filing, it is observed that if the argument of the Parties 
is accepted, it would mean that parties may keep amending the transaction documents 
and thereby keep postponing the notification timelines. This would render the 
statutory timeline of filing a notice within 30 days of the execution of the agreement 
for acquisition, meaningless. 
 
7. 
Thus, in view of the foregoing, the Commission observed that the Parties failed to give notice 
to the Commission within the time period of 30 days of execution of the agreement for 
acquisition, i.e., SPA1,under sub-section(2) of Section 6of the Act which attracts penalty 
under Section 43A of the Act. Section 43A of the Act reads as under: 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
                                    (Combination Registration No. C-2015/06/283) 
 
Page 5 of 5 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
“If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission under 
subsection(2) of section 6, the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise 
a penalty which may extend to one percent of the total turnover or the assets, 
whichever is higher, of such a combination.” 
 
8. 
However, considering the fact that the Parties, notwithstanding the delay of around 43 days in 
giving notice, had voluntarily filed the notice with the Commission before giving effect to the 
combination, the Commission considered it appropriate to impose a nominal penalty of INR 
5,00,000/- (INR Five Lakhs only) on the Parties. The Parties shall pay the penalty within sixty 
(60) days from the date of receipt of this order. 
 
9. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Parties accordingly. 
 
 
 
