  
Combination Reg. No. C-2018/01/547                                                                                                                                                                     Page 1 of 11 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2018/01/547) 
 
30/07/2018 
 
Notice given by Adani Transmission Limited 
 
CORAM 
 
Mr. Sudhir Mital 
Member 
 
Mr. Augustine Peter  
Member 
 
Mr. U. C. Nahta 
Member 
 
Mr. Justice G. P. Mittal 
Member 
 
 
Appearances during the oral 
hearing held on 14th June, 2018 
: 
Mr. Raj Shekhar Rao, Advocate along with 
Mr. Anshuman Sakle, Ms. Neelambera 
Sandeepan and Mr. Anandh Venkatramani, 
Advocates. 
 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
Background: 
 
1. 
On 16th January, 2018, the Competition Commission of India 
(Commission) received a notice given by Adani Transmission Limited 
(ATL) under Section 6(2) of the Competition Act, 2002 (Act), regarding 

  
Combination Reg. No. C-2018/01/547                                                                                                                                                                     Page 2 of 11 
its proposed acquisition of 100% of the equity shares of Reliance Electric 
Generation and Supply Limited (ReGSL) from Reliance Infrastructure 
Limited (RInfra). The notice was given pursuant to the execution of a 
Share Purchase Agreement on 21st December, 2017 (SPA), by and 
between ATL, REGSL and RInfra. 
 
2. 
After the assessment of the combination, the Commission approved the 
said acquisition on 9th February, 2018 under Section 31(1) of the Act. The 
approval was granted without prejudice to the proceedings under Section 
43A of the Act. 
 
Section 43A Proceedings: 
 
3. 
During the assessment of the combination, the Commission noted that 
certain provisions of SPA required ATL to advance loan to RInfra, even 
before the approval of Commission. The SPA further provided that ATL 
could adjust the loan advanced thereunder, as well as certain other earlier 
loans advanced by ATL to RInfra, against the consideration payable for 
the proposed acquisition. Based on these terms, the Commission was of 
the view that there exists a prima facie case of contravention of the 
standstill obligation contained in Section 6(2) of the Act read with Section 
6(2A) of the Act, as the parties appeared to have partly consummated the 
combination even before the approval of the Commission. Therefore, it 
was decided to initiate proceedings under Section 43A of the Act.  
 
4. 
Accordingly, a notice dated 7th March 2018, under Regulation 48 of the 
Competition Commission of India (General) Regulation (General 
Regulations) was issued to ATL to show cause, in writing, within fifteen 
(15) days of the receipt of the notice as to why penalty shall not be imposed 
upon it, in terms of Section 43A of the Act (SCN).  

  
Combination Reg. No. C-2018/01/547                                                                                                                                                                     Page 3 of 11 
 
5. 
The relevant extract of SCN, based on which contravention was alleged, 
is reproduced as under:  
 
“
(a) 
Clause 2.A.2 of the SPA provides that the Acquirer will 
advance a loan amounting to INR 1,101.00 Crore out of 
which INR 101 Crore will be advanced on or about the 
Execution Date. 
 
(b) 
Clause 2A.3 of the SPA states that “the Purchaser at its sole 
discretion may exercise an option to set off such amounts 
repayable by the Seller to the Purchaser under the (i) loan 
agreement dated October 30, 2017, between the Purchaser 
and the Seller; (ii) loan advance referred to in Clause 2A.2 
(loans referred to in (i) and (ii) collectively being referred 
to as “Total Loans”) against the Share Sale Consideration, 
and making the remaining payment to the Seller, arrived at 
in terms of this Agreement”.  
 
(c) 
Clause 2.1(ii) of the Amendment Agreement to the SPA 
(dated 21.12.2017) states that “Purchaser will advance an 
additional loan amounting to Rs 1101,00,00,000 (Indian 
Rupess One Thousand One Hundred and One Crore) to the 
Seller, out of which INR 101,00,00,000 (Indian Rupees One 
Hundred and One Crore) will be advanced on or about the 
Execution Date and for the balance amounts the timelines 
for funding will be mutually agreed between the Parties. It 
is agreed between the Parties that the Purchaser shall 
advance a further loan of INR 500,00,00,000 (Indian 
Rupees Five Hundred Crore) to the Seller on or about the 
date of the Amendment Agreement.”  
 
(d) 
Further, Clause 7 of the SPA provides for adjustment in the 
purchase consideration of the “Total loan to the Seller to 
the extent outstanding on the Closing Date”.” 
 
6. 
In response to the SCN, ATL filed its reply on 2nd April, 2018. The 
summary of the response is as under:  
 

  
Combination Reg. No. C-2018/01/547                                                                                                                                                                     Page 4 of 11 
6.1. Since the issue largely relates to advancement of loan, it is clarified 
that ATL had entered into three different loan agreements with 
RInfra: (i) loan agreement dated 30th October 2017 for an amount of 
INR 1001/- crore; (ii) loan agreement dated 21st December, 2017 for 
an amount of INR 1001/- crore; and (iii) loan agreement dated 2nd 
January, 2018 for an amount of INR 500/- crore.  
 
6.2. RInfra is not a party to the combination. ATL and REGSL are the 
parties to the combination in respect of which notice under Section 
6(2) of the Act was given to the Commission. Therefore, 
advancement of loans to R-Infra, which is not a party to the 
combination should not fall within the ambit of a violation of Section 
6(2A) of the Act.    
 
6.3. Advancement of loans did not amount to payment of advance 
consideration for the purpose of the proposed transaction. The 
impugned loans embody the usual characteristics of an ordinary loan 
facility and were independently repayable. Loan was provided for a 
limited purpose of maintaining the financial and economic viability 
of R-Infra. Further, the impugned loans were only optionally 
adjustable against the consideration for the proposed acquisition as 
a mere safeguard mechanism for the lending enterprise. Thus, the 
loans cannot be regarded as advance consideration. 
 
6.4. Advancement of loan does not amount to acquisition of control. 
Given that the loans were provided for a limited and for specified 
purpose of maintaining the financial viability of R-Infra, the same 
did not result in any form of control being acquired by ATL, prior to 
the approval of the Commission. Further, SPA sets out certain 
clauses, which ensure than no integration activity could take place 

  
Combination Reg. No. C-2018/01/547                                                                                                                                                                     Page 5 of 11 
prior to the receipt of approval under the Act, which could be in 
violation of Section 6(2A) of the Act. 
 
6.5. Further, actions and conduct of ATL were undertaken in good faith 
and without mala fide intention. 
 
7. 
ATL further requested for a personal hearing before the Commission to 
present its case. The Commission allowed the request and heard ATL on 
14th June, 2018.  
 
8. 
During the hearing, the learned counsel appearing for ATL submitted that 
the decisional practice of the Commission has been certain in cases 
concerning pre-payment of consideration; and given the levels of penalty 
levied in those cases and that the relevant facts having been disclosed 
voluntarily by ATL in the notice given under Section 6(2) of the Act, 
penalty, if any, levied shall be in the between INR 5/- and INR 10/- lakhs.  
  
Commission’s Determination: 
 
9. 
The Commission has gone into the material on record as well as heard 
ATL. The determination of the Commission is as under: 
 
9.1. 
The crux of the issue is whether the advancement of loan to RInfra 
and adjustment of the same against the consideration payable for 
the proposed acquisition amount to a contravention of the standstill 
obligation contained in Section 6(2A) read with Section 6(2) of the 
Act. 
 
9.2. 
Before getting into the merits of the contentions of ATL, it would 
be relevant to look into the relevant provision of the Act. It is 

  
Combination Reg. No. C-2018/01/547                                                                                                                                                                     Page 6 of 11 
observed that the Act envisages ex-ante regulation of 
combinations. Section 6(1) of the Act prohibits combination that 
causes or is likely to cause appreciable adverse effect on 
combination and Section 6(2) of the Act obliges parties to the 
combination to give notice to the Commission in respect of their 
proposed combination. Further, Section 6(2A) of the Act provides 
that a combination notified to the Commission shall not come into 
effect for a period of 210 days from the date of notification or the 
approval of the Commission, whichever is earlier. For ease of 
reference, relevant extract of these provisions is reproduced below: 
 
“Regulation of combinations 
 
6 
(1) No person or enterprise shall enter into a 
combination which causes or is likely to cause an 
appreciable adverse effect on competition within the 
relevant market in India and such a combination shall be 
void. 
 
 
(2) Subject to the provisions contained in sub-section (1), 
any person or enterprise, who or which proposes to enter 
into a combination, shall give notice to the Commission, 
in the form as may be specified, and the fee which may be 
determined, by regulations, disclosing the details of the 
proposed combination, within thirty days of …. 
 
 
(2A) No combination shall come into effect until two 
hundred and ten days have passed from the day on which 
the notice has been given to the Commission under sub-
section (2) or the Commission has passed orders under 
section 31, whichever is earlier.” 
 
9.3. 
In order to enforce the above provisions, including the ex-ante 
obligation of the parties thereunder, Section 43A was inserted into 
the Act, by way of an amendment in 2007, to empower the 
Commission to impose penalty in cases where parties fail to give 

  
Combination Reg. No. C-2018/01/547                                                                                                                                                                     Page 7 of 11 
notice in terms of Section 6(2) of the Act. Section 43A of the Act 
reads as under:  
 
“Power to impose penalty for non-furnishing of 
information on combinations 
 
43A. 
 
If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice 
to the Commission under sub- section (2) of section 
6, the Commission shall impose on such person or 
enterprise a penalty which may extend to one 
percent, of the total turnover or the assets, 
whichever is higher, of such a combination.” 
 
9.4. 
The Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, in SCM Solifert Limited & 
Anr.  v. Competition Commission of India [Civil Appeal No(S). 
10678 of 2016], had the occasion to deal with the scheme of ex-
ante merger control under the Act. The relevant extracts are 
reproduced below:  
 
19. The expression “proposes to enter into a combination” in 
section 6(2) and further details to be disclosed in the notice to 
the Commission are of the ‘proposed combination’ and the 
specific provisions contained in section 6(2A) of the Act 
provides that no combination shall come into effect until 210 
days have passed from the date on which notice has been given 
or passing of orders under section 31 by the Commission, 
whichever is earlier. The intent of the Act is that the 
Commission has to permit combination to be formed, and has 
an opportunity to assess whether the proposed combination 
would cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition. In 
case combination is to be notified ex-post facto for approval, 
it would defeat the very intendment of the provisions of the Act. 
 
9.5. 
The scheme and purpose of the Act is to provide an opportunity to 
the Commission to evaluate the likely effects of the proposed 
combination on competition and regulate them appropriately. If 
parties to the combination deny this statutory opportunity provided 

  
Combination Reg. No. C-2018/01/547                                                                                                                                                                     Page 8 of 11 
to the Commission, the same would attract penalty under Section 
43A of Act.  
 
9.6. 
Coming to the facts of the instant case, it is evident that, even 
before the proposed combination, ATL had advanced loans to 
RInfra, who was the seller of the target asset i.e. 100% of the equity 
shares held by it in ReGSL. Further, as a part of the proposed 
combination, SPA envisaged advancement of additional loan by 
ATL to RInfra. Thus, the circumstances were that a creditor had 
proposed to acquire assets of the debtor/seller, and the 
consideration payable for the acquisition is adjustable with the loan 
advanced.  
 
9.7. 
ATL contended that penalty under Section 43A of the Act cannot 
be based on the conduct of an enterprise who is not a party to the 
combination. It has been claimed that RInfra is different from 
REGSL, which is the target acquired by ATL and hence, RInfra is 
not a party to the combination. The Commission does not see any 
merit in such a contention as RInfra is the seller in the proposed 
combination and had control over REGSL. It is relevant to observe 
that REGSL, which was acquired, did not have any business 
operations in or outside India and RInfra transferred its power 
generation, transmission and distribution businesses to REGSL for 
the purpose of the proposed combination. Thus, in effect, REGSL 
was directly related to the proposed combination as its assets were 
proposed to be sold to ATL. Further, in terms of the Act and the 
regulations made thereunder, the Acquirer i.e. ATL was under an 
obligation not to indulge in any conduct that would be contrary to 
the standstill obligation contained under Section 6(2) read with 
Section 6(2A) of the Act. The impugned conduct of advancing 

  
Combination Reg. No. C-2018/01/547                                                                                                                                                                     Page 9 of 11 
loans having been pursued by ATL, the Commission does not see 
any legal impediment in examining the same under the relevant 
provisions of the Act.  
 
9.8. 
The Commission is also not in agreement with ATL on the point 
that the standstill obligation under Section 6(2) and Section 6(2A) 
of the Act is applicable only to acquisition of control and that 
advancement of loan by the Acquirer to the seller does not amount 
to acquisition of control. Neither the provisions of the Act nor the 
regulations made thereunder postulate that penalty under Section 
43A can be imposed only in cases where the coordination between 
the parties prior to the approval by the Commission has resulted in 
acquisition or change in control.  
 
9.9. 
In the past, Commission has issued two orders dated 14th 
September, 2016 in Combination Reg. No. C-2015/08/299 (In Re: 
Hindustan Colas Private Limited) and 12th March, 2018 in 
Combination Reg. No. C-2015/02/246 (In Re: UltraTech Cement 
Limited), under Section 43A of the Act, clarifying that pre-payment 
of consideration, in part or full, amount to contravention of the 
obligations contained in Section 6(2) read with section 6(2A) of the 
Act. In the instant case, besides the earlier loans adjustable with the 
consideration payable, the SPA envisaged advancement of further 
loan to the seller, which was also adjustable against the 
consideration for the combination. In effect, these loans are in the 
nature of advance consideration, particularly given that ATL is not 
ordinarily engaged in the business of advancing loans and its 
business activities are horizontally and/or vertically relatable to the 
target businesses acquired.  
 

  
Combination Reg. No. C-2018/01/547                                                                                                                                                                     Page 10 of 11 
9.10. It would be instructive to reproduce the observations of the 
Commission in its order dated 14th September, 2016 in 
Combination Reg. No. C-2015/08/299: 
 
“6.9 …The Commission noted that pre-payment of price (whether 
refundable/nonrefundable) may have a number of competition 
distorting effects viz., (i) it may lead to a strategic advantage for 
the Acquirer; (ii) it may reduce the incentive and will of ‘target’ 
to compete; and (iii) it may become a reason/basis to access the 
confidential information of the ‘target’. On an overall basis, it 
may be said that pre-payment of consideration may have the 
impact of creating a tacit collusion which may cause an adverse 
effect on competition even before consummation of the 
combination. Thus, the Commission is of the opinion that what 
is important is pre-payment of consideration and solely the fact 
of the same being refundable or otherwise is not relevant… 
 
6.11  The Acquirer further submitted that the refundable deposit had 
not resulted into any benefits or control to Hindustan Colas 
other than showcasing their commitment to SIMPL towards the 
Combination. It has also been submitted that there were other 
potential buyers competing for the same asset, it was felt 
necessary and commercially expedient to pay this deposit to 
demonstrate their earnestness in acquiring the asset. In this 
regard, as noted above, this type of arrangement is potentially 
likely to facilitate tacit collusion which is considered to be a 
worst form of collusion and therefore cannot be allowed. The 
Act mandates the Commission to examine combinations ex-ante 
and therefore the issues such as whether the parties actually 
benefitted or not from the impugned conduct or whether there 
were any commercial exigencies behind a particular conduct 
may not be relevant to the determination of provisions of Section 
6(2) and 6(2A) of the Act.  
 
6.12  The Acquirer has made references to suggest that the 
Combination was not consummated and no steps had been taken 
to integrate the businesses before the approval of the 
Commission. In this regard, the Commission observed that it 
has never been alleged that the entire combination has been 
consummated, what was alleged was that pre-payment of 
consideration has the effect of consummating a part of the 
Combination before the approval of the Commission. Thus, the 
submissions of the Acquirer on this aspect are not considered as 
relevant.” 

  
Combination Reg. No. C-2018/01/547                                                                                                                                                                     Page 11 of 11 
 
9.11. In view of foregoing, the Commission holds that the impugned 
conduct of advancement of loan by ATL to RInfra and proposed 
adjustment of the same against the consideration payable for the 
combination is in contravention of the standstill obligation 
contained in Section 6(2) read with Section 6(2A) of the Act. 
 
10. 
Having concluded a contravention of Section 6(2) of the Act, the 
Commission can impose penalty that may extend to one percent, of the 
total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher of the combination. 
However, the Commission considering the conduct of the parties and the 
circumstances of the case wherein the contravention has been established 
based on the information voluntarily disclosed by the parties, who have 
extended full cooperation in furnishing the information taken these as 
mitigating factors and considers it appropriate to impose a nominal penalty 
of INR 10,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Ten Lakhs only) on ATL.  
 
11. 
The Acquirers shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of 
receipt of this order. 
 
12. 
The Secretary is directed to forward a copy of this order to ATL.  
 
 
