 
Page 1 of 23 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
21st November, 2019 
 
 
Proceedings against Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and ReNew Power 
Limited under Chapter VI of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
 
CORAM: 
 
Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta  
Chairperson 
 
Ms. Sangeeta Verma 
Member 
 
Mr. Bhagwant Singh Bishnoi 
Member 
 
 
Appearances during the hearing held on 18th July, 2019 
 
For CPPIB 
:
Mr. Amit Sibal alongwith Mr. Saksham Dhingra, Mr. Rahul Rai, 
Mr. Rahul Satyan, Mr. Pranav Mody and Ms. Rajshree Sharma, 
Advocates  
 
For ReNew  
:
Mr. Rajshekhar Rao alongwith Mr. Gaurav Desai, Mr. Vijay Pratap 
Singh Chauhan and Ms. Shruti Bhat, Advocates  
 
 
ORDER UNDER SECTIONS 43A AND 44 OF THE COMPETITION ACT, 2002  
 
 
 
This common Order shall dispose of the proceedings under Sections 43A and 44 of the 
Competition Act, 2002 against Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and ReNew Power 
Limited, as a large part of the impugned issues are common and similar arguments were made 
by both the said parties.  
 
 
 

 
Page 2 of 23 
 
Background  
 
1. 
In the instant matter, the Commission initiated proceedings under Section 20(1) of 
the Competition Act, 2002 [Act] against ReNew Power Limited [ReNew] and 
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board [CPPIB] based on their press releases dated 
2nd April, 2018 and 3rd April, 2018, respectively. The impugned press releases 
indicated that ReNew acquired Ostro Energy Private limited [Ostro] with the 
support of the additional investment made by CPPIB in ReNew.  
 
2. 
Earlier, on 27th November, 2017, CPPIB gave a notice bearing Combination 
Registration No. C-2017/11/536, under Section 6(2) of the Act [Notice] regarding 
its proposed acquisition of about 16.33% of the equity share capital of ReNew 
[Transaction I]. Transaction I contemplated the following two sets of acquisitions: 
 
2.1. 
Secondary Acquisition: Acquisition of equity shares that represent 
approximately 6.33% of the equity share capital (on a fully diluted basis) of 
ReNew by CPPIB from Asian Development Bank [ADB]; and 
 
2.2. 
Primary Acquisition: Acquisition of compulsorily convertible preference 
shares (CCPS) of ReNew by CPPIB that will mandatorily convert into equity 
shares amounting to not more than 10% of the equity share capital of ReNew. 
In response to the letter of the Commission, CPPIB has clarified that this is 
the additional investment referred to in its press release dated 3rd April, 2018, 
discussed above. However, in lieu of CCPS to the extent of 10% of equity 
share capital of ReNew, CPPIB subscribed to equity shares representing 
9.7% of the equity share capital of ReNew.  
 
3. 
CPPIB considered both the Secondary Acquisition and Primary Acquisition as one 
combination (i.e. Transaction I) and gave a common Notice to the Commission. The 
Notice was given to the Commission only in respect of Transaction I pursuant to the 
execution of the share purchase agreement [SPA] for undertaking the Secondary 
Acquisition and a term sheet [Term Sheet] relating to the Primary Acquisition. 

 
Page 3 of 23 
 
Based on the information provided by CPPIB, the Commission approved the above 
combination and Order in this regard was issued on dated 9th January, 2018. 
 
Initiation of proceedings under Section 20(1) of the Act 
 
4. 
Based on the press releases issued by ReNew and CPPIB, it was brought to the notice 
of the Commission that ReNew acquired Ostro [Transaction II] with the support of 
the investment made by CPPIB in ReNew. The relevant extracts of the press releases 
are as under:  
 
4.1. 
Press release, dated 2nd April, 2018, issued by the ReNew: 
 
“…ReNew Power, one of India’s leading clean energy companies, today 
announced the acquisition of Ostro Energy Private Limited.………… 
 
Concurrent with this transaction, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board 
(CPPIB) is investing an additional US$247 million to support ReNew 
Power’s financing for this acquisition. As a result, the CPPIB’s combined 
investment in ReNew Power now stands at US$391 million, following an 
earlier investment of US$ 144 million in January 2018….”  
 
(emphasis added) 
 
4.2. 
Press release, dated 3rd April, 2018, issued by the CPPIB: 
 
“...CPPIB’s additional investment will support ReNew Power’s acquisition 
of Ostro Energy Private Limited (Ostro Energy), an Indian renewable 
energy developer with total capacity of more than 1,100 megawatts. With 
the acquisition of Ostro Energy’s assets, ReNew Power’s capacity will 
increase to more than 5,600 megawatts. Founded in 2011, ReNew Power is 
one of India’s leading clean energy companies with capacity diversified 
across wind, utility-scale solar and rooftop solar power-producing assets 
across India. 
 
“We are pleased to further support ReNew Power in its latest acquisition, 
which further strengthens their position in India’s renewables sector. Our 
additional investment aligns well with CPPIB’s overall power and 
renewables strategy, providing greater diversification for the CPP Fund,” 
said Scott Lawrence, Managing Director, Head of Fundamental Equities, 
CPPIB. “As India’s demand for electricity increases, solar and wind are 
attractive sources of power. We congratulate ReNew Power on completing 
their significant acquisition and look forward to a long-term partnership 
with this highly experienced and proven management team. CPPIB will 

 
Page 4 of 23 
 
continue to seek opportunities to expand our power and renewables 
portfolio as demand grows worldwide along the transition to renewables.” 
 
(emphasis added) 
 
5. 
Since no notice was given in respect of Transaction II nor any disclosure was made 
in that regard in the Combination Case bearing Registration No. C-2017/11/536, the 
Commission decided to initiate proceedings under Section 20(1) of the Act against 
CPPIB and ReNew. Accordingly, letters dated 20th September, 2018 were sent to 
them requiring to furnish necessary details about the impugned transactions. CPPIB 
filed its responses on 23rd October, 2018. Renew filed its responses on 23rd October, 
2018 and 26th October, 2018. Upon perusing these, further information was sought 
from them vide letters dated 1st November, 2018. CPPIB and ReNew filed their 
responses on 7th December, 2018 and 11th December, 2018 respectively including 
relevant email correspondence and internal reports /recommendations. 
 
Notice under Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India (General) 
Regulations, 2009 read with Sections 43A and 44 of the Act:  
 
6. 
Upon considering the e-mail correspondence between CPPIB and ReNew, internal 
reports/ recommendations of CPPIB, the above discussed press releases and other 
information provided, the Commission was of the prima facie view that CPPIB and 
ReNew failed to notify Transaction II in terms of Section 6(2) of the Act read with 
Regulations 5, 9(4) and 9(5) of the Competition Commission of India (Procedure in 
regard to the transaction of business relating to combinations) Combinations 
Regulations, 2011 [Combination Regulations]. The Commission was of the further 
prima facie view that CPPIB suppressed and omitted to disclose the details of 
Transaction II to the Commission in Combination Registration No. C-2017/11/536.  
 
7. 
Accordingly, separate notices dated 28th February, 2019 [SCNs] were issued to 
CPPIB and ReNew, under Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India 
(General) Regulations, 2009, to show cause, in writing, within fifteen days of receipt 
of the SCN as to why penalty in terms of Section 43A of the Act shall not be imposed 
on them and why they shall not be directed to file a notice with the Commission, in 



 
Page 7 of 23 
 
certainty on valuation of Ostro for the purpose of Transaction II is reached. 
This is more evident when CPPIB tells ReNew, vide email dated 27th 
November, 2017, that 
* 
* (emphasis 
added). This also shows that CPPIB and Renew had discussions to the effect 
that they would not start working on the SSA, for the purpose of Primary 
Acquisition in Transaction I, without alignment of valuation of Ostro in 
Transaction II. Such consensus between CPPIB and ReNew indicate the 
knowledge of CPPIB about Transaction II and its linkage with Transaction I. 
The linkage between Transaction I and Transaction II is also manifested 
when ReNew informs the valuation of Ostro to CPPIB on 30th November 
2017 and in response, on the same day, CPPIB replies 
 
and that CPPIB is happy to launch the share subscription process. 
 
(ii) 
Documents considered by Investment Department Decision 
Committee of CPPIB 
 
8.3. 
Investment Recommendation dated 9th November, 2017 considered by 
CPPIB: This document was considered by the Investment Department 
Decision Committee of CPPIB on 14th November, 2017. Upon such 
consideration, CPPIB approved the investment in ReNew by Fundamental 
Equities (FE), a Division of CPPIB. The relevant aspects of this document 
are summarised as under:  
 
8.3.1. 
“Recommendation: That Fundamental Equities (“FE”) invest 
upto 
* for upto 
* ownership of ReNew Power 
Ventures Pvt. Ltd. (“ReNew” or the “Company”) across two 
sleeves. Sleeve 1 involves acquision of 
* shares for $145 
million from Asian Development Bank (“ADB”) at negotiated 
price (see Appendix 11.1), 
* 
*
* Sleeve 2 
involves investing up to an additional 
* to support the 
Company [ReNew] with acquisitions and/or to purchase shares 
from other investors”  
(emphasis added).  
 

 
Page 8 of 23 
 
The recommendation shows that the second sleeve (i.e. Primary 
Acquisition) of the transaction is to fund acquisitions contemplated 
by ReNew. 
 
8.3.2. 
“The Company has approached FE to support a transformational 
acquisition”  
(emphasis added)  
 
This statement reiterates the fundamental purpose and objective of 
ReNew in entering into Primary Acquisition in Transaction I was 
to get financial support to undertake an acquisition which is 
transformational in nature.  
 
8.3.3. 
“ReNew is in late-stage discussion to acquire Ostro Energy”  
(emphasis added)  
 
This statement is a note to the table, on top 10 Wind and Solar 
Independent Power Producers (IPP). This again shows that CPPIB 
was not only aware of Transaction II at the time of evaluating the 
investment opportunity through Transaction I but it was also aware 
that discussion in that regard was in advance stage.  
 
8.3.4. 
“Ostro Acquisition: At present, ReNew is in bilateral discussion to 
acquire a wind – focussed IPP with a total portfolio of 1.1 GW 
* 
The acquisition is expected to close by December, 2017 for an 
acquisition price of 
* (including the assumption of debt), 
representing a run – rate EV/EBITDA multiple of 
* 
* 
(see 
Appendix 
11.6: 
Summary 
of 
Acquisition). The Company has asked us to support the 
acquisition with a 
 equity investment”  
(emphasis added).  
 
This further shows that the CPPIB’s Primary Acquisition in 
ReNew was to enable the latter’s acquisition of Ostro.  
 

 
Page 9 of 23 
 
8.3.5. 
Item 6 of the Investment Recommendation on ‘Company 
Valuation and Investment Returns’ estimates the expected returns 
from the investment proposed in ReNew. The Internal Rate of 
Return (IRR) was also estimated on the basis of business 
operations of ReNew as well as Ostro. It has been specifically 
clarified in the notes to the Table on comparison of expected 
returns that ‘Assuming the Company [ReNew] successfully 
completes Ostro acquisition with 
 primary financing 
from CPPIB’ (emphasis added). This along with the fact that 
ReNew asked CPPIB to support Ostro acquisition indicates that 
Transaction II was a certain consideration for both CPPIB and 
ReNew to contemplate and undertake the Primary Acquisition in 
Transaction I.  
 
8.3.6. 
“11.6. Summary of proposed 
acquisition…11.6.1. 
Ostro 
Background and Transaction Matrix…established in 2014, Ostro 
has 1108 MW of operational 
* and under construction 
 Note that the under-construction solar project will 
operational at closing. The projects have 
* overlap with states 
where ReNew has operations and are diversified across OEMs (for 
wind projects) and off-takers. 
* of Ostro Assets (higher than for 
ReNew) are facing higher credit quality, federal off-takers (NTPC 
and PTC)”  
 
(emphasis added).  
 
As per the submissions of CPPIB, ReNew contemplated many 
acquisitions at that point in time and all of them need not be 
disclosed in the Notice filed with the Commission. While no other 
potential acquisition by ReNew finds place in detailed Investment 
Recommendation of CPPIB, the Ostro Acquisition was discussed 
at length. This again shows the significance of Transaction II in 
pursuing Transaction I. 
 
9. 
Based on the above, the SCNs came to the prima facie view that Transaction I and 
Transaction II are inter-connected. Further, CPPIB and ReNew, being the acquirer 
in Transaction II, are in contravention of the obligation contained in Section 6(2) of 

 
Page 10 of 23 
 
the Act read with Regulations 5, 9(4) and 9(5) of the Combination Regulations. Since 
the facts and developments regarding Transaction II were material to Transaction I, 
the SCN issued to CPPIB noted that it suppressed and omitted to disclose the details 
of Transaction II to the Commission, at the time of notification of Transaction I. 
 
10. 
In response to the notice of the Commission, CPPIB and ReNew filed their responses 
on 18th April, 2019 and 22nd April, 2019, respectively. Both of them also sought oral 
hearing before the Commission. Accordingly, the Commission heard both CPPIB 
and ReNew on 18th July, 2019, at length and allowed them to file further written 
submissions. CPPIB and ReNew filed their written submissions on 1st August, 2019.  
 
Issues for determination:  
 
11. 
The Commission has given careful consideration to the submissions of the parties, 
their oral and written arguments and other materials available on record. The issues 
that arise for determination of the Commission are as under:  
 
11.1. 
Whether Transaction I and Transaction II are inter-connected to each other 
and if so, whether CPPIB and Renew failed to give notice in respect of 
Transaction  II, in terms of Section 6(2) of the Act read with Regulations 5, 
9(4) and 9(5) of the Combination Regulations; and 
 
11.2. 
If the facts and developments regarding Transaction II are material to 
Transaction I, whether CPPIB omitted to disclose the same to the 
Commission, knowing it to be material.  
 
A. Inter-connectedness of Transaction I and Transaction II 
 
12. 
In response to the SCN, CPPIB raised preliminary objections, each of which is dealt 
below:  
 
12.1. 
CPPIB has contended that mere knowledge about potential acquisition of 
Ostro by ReNew (i.e. Transaction II) alone cannot imply inter-connection 

 
Page 11 of 23 
 
between Transaction I and Transaction II. Further, the SCN has failed to 
consider the serious policy implications of such an interpretation of ‘inter-
connected’ transactions. A prudent investor would consider it routine, even 
mandatory, to secure knowledge of potential investment by the target 
company. However, each of such potential acquisition cannot be considered 
inter-connected to the investment into the target company.  
 
12.2. 
The Commission notes that the impugned press releases and other material 
discussed above not only claims the knowledge of CPPIB about Transaction 
II but also that: (a) ReNew had approached CPPIB to seek financial support 
for acquiring Ostro; (b) CPPIB went into a standby mode and stalled the 
discussion on Primary Acquisition in Transaction I until certainty on Ostro 
valuation was reached and commenced the subscription process only 
thereafter; and (c) after the closing of Transaction II, CPPIB went public to 
state that its additional investment in ReNew (i.e. Primary Acquisition) was 
to support the latter to acquire Ostro. Based on these, the SCN inter alia 
states that CPPIB was not only aware of Transaction II but in fact, the 
Primary Acquisition in Transaction I was contemplated and pursued to 
facilitate funding to ReNew to support its acquisition of Ostro (i.e. 
Transaction II). Thus, it cannot be said that SCN sought to establish inter-
connection between Transaction I and Transaction II merely based on the 
knowledge of CPPIB.  Further, it is also not the case of SCN to make all 
and every potential acquisitions by target enterprise, as a part of the 
combination.  
 
12.3. 
Placing reliance on the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Roop 
Kumar v. Mohan Thedani [(2003) 6 SCC 595] and Gangabai w/o Rambilas 
Gilda v. Chhabubai [1982 SCR (1) 1176], CPPIB has argued that when 
there is a written agreement, the commercial understandings therein cannot 
be contradicted using other material. Thus, the press releases and internal 
communications cannot be considered to determine violation of Section 
6(2) of the Act.  
 

 
Page 12 of 23 
 
12.4. 
The Commission observes that the above judgments cited by CPPIB relate 
to interpretation of contracts and the limitation on using extraneous aids/ 
documents to contradict terms and conditions of a contract. However, the 
issue in the instant matter does not relate to interpretation of a contract. The 
focus of the instant proceedings is to determine whether Transaction I and 
Transaction II are inter-connected. This is a matter of economic reality to 
be gauged from the facts and circumstances of the case and cannot be 
limited to the written agreements between the parties. Thus the Commission 
is not limited by written contracts for the purpose of determining inter-
connectedness between two transactions. Similar argument was taken 
before the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Competition Commission of India v. 
Thomas Cook & Anr. [Civil Appeal No.13578 of 2015]. It was the case of 
the Commission that market purchase of securities was connected to a share 
purchase under an agreement as well as a scheme of merger. The parties 
contented that the market purchases were not referred to in the said 
agreement and the scheme for merger and thus, the market purchases were 
independent of the other acquisition and merger. However, based on other 
material and circumstantial factors, the Hon’ble Supreme Court held that 
the market purchases, the other acquisition and the merger constitute one 
composite combination. In its judgment, the Apex Court specifically 
observed that ‘Technical interpretation to isolate two different steps of 
transactions of a composite combination would be against the spirit and 
provisions of the Act.’ 
 
12.5. 
CPPIB has submitted that the SCN selectively relies on certain documents 
while omitting others. Two documents furnished by CPPIB were stated to 
be disregarded: (a) ReNew Investment Presentation – shows that proceeds 
of Transaction I is not required for ReNew to acquire Ostro; and (b) minutes 
of CPPIB – shows the instance where funding was contingent upon 
subsequent acquisition – no such intention or arrangement is made by 
CPPIB in relation to Ostro acquisition. These submissions allude that the 
Primary Acquisition in Transaction I is not contingent upon Ostro 
acquisition.  

 
Page 13 of 23 
 
 
12.6. 
The Commission notes that while the above minutes and presentation may 
not reflect dependence between Transaction I and Transaction II, they do 
not, in any manner, go contrary to the facts and circumstances reflected in 
the press releases, e-mails and the Investment Recommendation of CPPIB, 
discussed in the SCN. If the circumstances otherwise show inter-
connectedness between Transaction I and Transaction II, it is neither 
mandatory for CPPIB to record the inter-connectedness in its minutes nor 
essential that ReNew lacks independent financial strength to acquire Ostro. 
In simple terms, the issue is not whether ReNew could have acquired Ostro 
without funding from CPPIB. Instead, focus of the proceedings is to 
determine whether the Primary Acquisition in Transaction I was pursued to 
support Ostro Acquisition.  
 
12.7. 
CPPIB has also contended that the SCN reflects a pre-determined mind on 
the issues and CPPIB ought to have been given opportunity of stating its 
case before coming to a conclusion. 
 
12.8. 
On this issue, it is observed that if an SCN narrates a prima facie view on 
the violation of the provisions of the Act, based on material discussed 
therein, the same cannot be construed as pre-determined mind. To suggest 
pre-determined mind, CPPIB has argued that SCN chose to allege 
contravention ignoring the compelling alternative arguments summarised 
in para 12.5 above. Principles of taxation were referred to suggest that when 
two alternative arguments are available, the one favourable to the alleged 
wrongdoer must be adopted.  However, the impugned issue does not relate 
to taxation or a contract. Even if the minutes of CPPIB and Investment 
Presentation (which purportedly show absence of inter-connection between 
the two transactions) are taken into consideration, the same do not make 
any alternative compelling argument as: (a) they do not negate the facts and 
circumstances indicated in the e-mails, internal considerations and press 
releases discussed earlier; and (b) these are neutral to the issue of inter-

 
Page 14 of 23 
 
connectedness between Primary Acquisition in Transaction I and Ostro 
acquisition. 
 
12.9. 
It is further observed that SCN is not a final determination by the 
Commission but only lays down the charges of contravention along with 
the basis, and calls for response on the alleged contraveners. SCN itself is 
an opportunity to CPPIB to present its case before final determination of 
the issues, by the Commission. Apart from the written response, the 
Commission has also heard CPPIB, at length, followed by its further written 
submissions. Thus, the Commission sees no merit on the issue of violation 
of the principles of natural justice.  
 
13. 
Coming to the merits of the case, both ReNew and CPPIB have made similar 
arguments and submissions. The primary contention is that Transaction II does not 
meet the legal test of inter-connection under the Combination Regulations and the 
parameters prescribed by the Commission in Thomas Cook Case. CPPIB has 
contended that connected transactions must coalesce towards the common objective 
and such intention should be memorialised in a binding document. Further, 
notification to the Commission arises only upon execution of a binding document. 
At the time of notification of Transaction I, no binding document was entered into 
in respect of Ostro acquisition. Thus, there is no need to notify or report Transaction 
II to the Commission.  
 
14. 
Before delving into the merits of these contentions of CPPIB and ReNew, it is 
pertinent to note the relevant provisions of the Act and the Combination Regulations. 
The Act envisages ex-ante regulation of combinations. Section 6(1) of the Act 
prohibits combination that causes or likely to cause appreciable adverse effect on 
competition. Section 6(2) of the Act obliges parties to give notice in respect of their 
proposed combination. Further, Section 6(2A) of the Act provides that a combination 
notified to the Commission shall not come into effect for a period of 210 days from 
the date of notification or earlier approval by the Commission. Thus, the scheme and 
purpose of the Act is to provide an opportunity to the Commission to evaluate the 
likely effects of the proposed combination on competition in the relevant market(s) 

 
Page 15 of 23 
 
and regulate them appropriately. If parties to the combination forfeit this statutory 
opportunity provided to the Commission, the same would attract penalty under 
Section 43A of Act. 
 
15. 
Regulation 9(4) of the Combination Regulations states that “Where the ultimate 
intended effect of a business transaction is achieved by way of a series of steps or 
smaller individual transactions which are inter-connected, one or more of which 
may amount to a combination, a single notice, covering all these transactions, shall 
be filed by the parties to the combination”. This provision makes it mandatory for 
parties to combination to give one notice covering all inter-connected steps of their 
proposed combination. Further, Regulation 9(5) of the Combination Regulations 
provides that “The requirement of filing notice under regulation 5 of these 
regulations shall be determined with respect to the substance of the transaction and 
any structure of the transaction(s), comprising a combination, that has the effect of 
avoiding notice in respect of the whole or a part of the combination shall be 
disregarded”. As noted earlier, the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Thomas Cook case 
has clarified that technical interpretation to isolate two steps of the same combination 
would be contrary to the sprit and provisions of the Act.  
 
16. 
CPPIB made reference to the decision of the Commission in Thomas Cook case to 
suggest that the following elements are essential to establish inter-connectedness: (i) 
the business and entities involved; (ii) simultaneity in negotiation, execution and 
consummation of the transactions; and (iii) whether it is practical and reasonable to 
isolate and view the transactions separately. However, the relevant portion of the 
said Order of the Commission states that: It is observed that considering two 
different transactions as one combination depends on the facts and circumstances 
of each case with due regard to the subject matter of the transactions; the business 
and entities involved; simultaneity in negotiation, execution and consummation of 
the transactions; and also, whether it is practical and reasonable to isolate and view 
the transactions separately (emphasis added). As may be seen, a holistic 
appreciation of the facts and circumstances of the given case would be relevant to 
determine inter-connectedness and isolated or piecemeal appreciation of specific 
facts or parameters may not yield any pragmatic conclusion. The specific elements 

 
Page 16 of 23 
 
pointed out in said decision are only indicative in nature and are not 
mandatory/exhaustive conditions to establish inter-connectedness. 
 
17. 
CPPIB has also submitted that to be inter-connected, one part of the transaction 
cannot be consummated without the other. However, in large part of inter-connected 
transactions one will follow the other. Just because the second transaction happens 
later, it cannot be argued that the same is not inter-connected, as the first transaction 
was consummated without the consummation of the second transaction. If such test 
of absolute dependence/ simultaneity is applied, it will lead to erroneous and 
impractical results and no inter-connection may be established ever. 
 
18. 
On the issue of binding agreement not being in place for Transaction II, the 
Commission observes without doubt that binding document is the basis for 
notification of any combination under Section 6(2) of the Act. However, an inter-
connected part of the combination cannot escape notification on the technical pretext 
that binding agreement has not been entered into for such inter-connected 
transaction. If one agrees otherwise, notification of a connected transaction can be 
avoided by just postponing the execution of the binding document for the inter-
connected part. The Commission notes that CPPIB did not even whisper about Ostro 
acquisition in the notice filed under Section 6(2) of the Act, despite the same being 
an important consideration to pursue Transaction I. It is reiterated that the substance 
of a combination would guide the scope of the notification to Commission and as 
observed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Thomas Cook Case, technical 
interpretations to isolate two different steps of transactions of a composite 
combination would be against the spirit and provisions of the Act.  
 
19. 
CPPIB has submitted that material on record shows that (i) ReNew was in the 
process of evaluating a number of M&A opportunities; (ii) ReNew had existing 
funds, as well as substantial lines of credit with several major banks and other 
lenders, for the purpose of acquiring up to 
 of projects (including Ostro, 
which is a 1,100 MW project); and (iii) ReNew’s M&A strategy and acquisitions 
would have continued even without CPPIB’s investment in ReNew. 
 

 
Page 17 of 23 
 
20. 
In this regard, it is relevant to note that the Investment Recommendation of CPPIB, 
while discussing Ostro Acquisition at length, specifically notes that “The Company 
[ReNew] has asked us to support the acquisition [Ostro Acquisition] with a 
* 
* equity investment” (emphasis added). At another place, the same document 
states that “Assuming the Company [ReNew] successfully completes Ostro 
acquisition with 
* primary financing from CPPIB” (emphasis added). 
The case of SCN is that Primary Acquisition in Transaction I and Transaction II are 
connected. The SCN and the charges therein does not hinge upon whether ReNew 
would not have been able to acquire Ostro without the investment from CPPIB. If 
the above statements of CPPIB and other material discussed herein were to show 
inter-connectedness between Transaction I and Transaction II, the mere fact that 
ReNew had financial strength to acquire Ostro, even without Transaction I, would 
be of no help to break the link between Transaction I and Transaction II.  
 
21. 
Further, the Investment Recommendations of CPPIB states that ReNew sought 
 
 investment for the purpose of Ostro Acquisition (i.e. Transaction II); 
whereas, the consideration to be paid by ReNew for Ostro Acquisition was more 
than 
. Thus, the request of ReNew had been to seek partial funding from 
CPPIB for the purpose of Transaction II.  
 
22. 
CPPIB has alleged that SCN mischaracterises the intention behind the Investment 
Recommendation by taking into consideration the IRR projections with and without 
Ostro. In this regard, the Commission notes that no other acquisition contemplated 
by ReNew at that time, except Transaction II (i.e. Ostro Acquisition), could find a 
place in the Investment Recommendation of CPPIB. Further, this aspect alone is not 
the basis of SCN to allege inter-connectedness. CPPIB and ReNew have given 
specific and separate arguments/ submissions as to why the different material relied 
upon in the SCN do not suggest inter-connection. Seen in isolation, no specific 
material/ facts can be conclusive of inter-connectedness or a violation of obligation 
under Section 6(2) of the Act but a holistic appreciation would be relevant.   
 
23. 
The materials discussed in the SCN clearly show that: (a) the Investment 
Recommendation (which was the basis for CCPIB to approve Transaction I) records 

 
Page 18 of 23 
 
that ReNew approached CPPIB to provide financial assistance to acquire Ostro and 
discusses Transaction II at length along with IRR projection of ReNew with and 
without Ostro; (b) no other acquisition contemplated by ReNew at that time, except 
Transaction II (i.e. Ostro Acquisition), could find a place in the Investment 
Recommendation of CPPIB; (c) the e-mail correspondence show that CPPIB 
required access to diligence materials relating to Ostro before entering into a term 
sheet for Primary Acquisition in Transaction I; and (d) the said e-mail further shows 
that as per consensus between CPPIB and ReNew, the former was in a standby mode 
with respect to the Primary Acquisition in Transaction I, till the alignment of 
valuation of Ostro. Further, the press releases issued by both ReNew and CPPIB 
further corroborate that Transaction I was contemplated and pursued to facilitate 
partial funding to ReNew to support its acquisition of Ostro (i.e. Transaction II). The 
primary rationale/ objective of Primary Acquisition in Transaction I had been to 
partially fund Transaction II. CPPIB nor ReNew has specifically disputed the 
contents of the impugned e-mails, internal reports/ considerations of CPPIB and the 
press releases. It has been rather claimed that the said material are extraneous to 
determine inter-connectedness and the same need to be established only through the 
binding agreements. 
 
24. 
CPPIB and ReNew have contended that Transaction I and Transaction II are 
independent transactions on the basis of lack of simultaneity and parties being 
different. Pursuant to the hearing in the matter, CPPIB and ReNew have filed further 
written submissions summarizing their arguments/ contentions. CPPIB also 
furnished the timelines of various steps of Transaction I and Transaction II as well 
as the share prices of ReNew at different time period to support its case.  
 
 
Secondary 
Acquisition in 
Transaction I 
Primary 
Acquisition in 
Transaction I 
Ostro Acquisition
(Transaction II) 
Agreement  
16.11.2017 
14.03.2018 
15.01.2018 
Closing  
31.01.2018 
23.03.2018 
28.03.2018 
 
It is observed that CPPIB notified the Secondary and Primary Acquisitions in ReNew 
as one combination. However, it is interesting to note that timelines between these 

 
Page 19 of 23 
 
two legs of Transaction I was much wider than the time gap between Primary 
Acquisition in Transaction I and Transaction II. Similarly, on other parameters also, 
such as parties and objective, one may contend that Primary Acquisition in 
Transaction I is more integrally connected to Transaction II than the Secondary 
Acquisition. Seen in conjunction with the other material discussed herein, the 
Commission is of the view that Primary Acquisition in Transaction I and Transaction 
II were simultaneously negotiated and pursued. Further, Primary Acquisition in 
Transaction I was contemplated for the purpose of Transaction II. The share price 
details furnished by CPPIB also do not controvert the above discussed linkages 
between the Transaction I and Transaction II. 
 
25. 
CPPIB has alluded that although in the beginning ReNew might have approached 
CPPIB to fund Ostro acquisition, the actual negotiation and outcomes need not 
necessarily be seen to connect Primary Acquisition in Transaction I and Transaction 
II. Further, the commercial negotiations, the initial objective of one party (especially 
an investee company) is frequently at wide variance with the objective and intention 
of the other, and is not necessarily the one on which negotiations are conducted and 
binding transaction documents executed. This may be the commercial reality in 
many cases. However, the impugned material and facts categorically show that: (a) 
ReNew approached CPPIB for part financial support to acquire Ostro; and (b) after 
the closing of Transaction II, both CPPIB and ReNew issued press releases stating 
that the Primary Acquisition in Transaction I is an investment by CPPIB in ReNew 
to support the acquisition of Ostro (i.e. Transaction II). Such connection from 
starting till the closing read with the impugned e-mails show that the Primary 
Acquisition in Transaction I was conceived, negotiated, contemplated and pursued 
in relation to Transaction II. 
 
26. 
CPPIB has also objected to the reliance on press releases as the language therein is 
ambiguous, 
 and the same cannot be used to 
establish connection between Ostro acquisition (i.e. Transaction II) and Transaction 
1. However CPPIB has neither clarified what is the purported ambiguity nor 
submitted that statements in the press releases are incorrect. In the absence of 
contesting the correctness of the facts contained in the press releases, the facts therein 

 
Page 20 of 23 
 
are undisputed and will remain relevant. Just a bald request not to rely on the press 
releases cannot be a sufficient reason to discard them. It is also relevant to note that 
press releases was one of the material considered by the Supreme Court in Thomas 
Cook Case to understand the composite combination in that matter and the inter-
connectedness between different transactions therein. 
 
27. 
ReNew has further submitted that its acquisition of Ostro on a standalone basis is 
exempted from notification to the Commission in terms of the notification dated 27th 
March, 2017. The Commission does not see merit in this arguments as no part of a 
composite combination can be seen in isolation for the purpose of any exemption. 
This has also been clarified by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Thomas Cook Case1.  
 
28. 
On a holistic appreciation of the facts and circumstances of the case particularly 
those revealed in the impugned e-mails, Investment Recommendation of CPPIB and 
press releases, the Commission concludes that Transaction II was not merely a 
matter of knowledge of CPPIB gained out of general due diligence but was one of 
its key considerations and also the rationale for contemplating Primary Acquisition 
in Transaction I. Thus, based on the material on record, the Commission concludes 
that Transaction I and Transaction II are inter-connected. Accordingly, CPPIB and 
ReNew, being Acquirers in Transaction II, failed to give notice in terms of Section 
6(2) of the Act read with Regulations 5, 9(4) and 9(5) of the Combination 
Regulations, in respect of Transaction II. 
 
B. Suppression and omission to disclose the details of Transaction II  
 
29. 
Since the facts and developments regarding Transaction II are material to 
Transaction I, SCN noted that CPPIB appears to have suppressed and omitted to 
disclose the details of Transaction II to the Commission in Combination Reg. No. 
C-2017/11/536. Accordingly, CPPIB was required to show case as to why penalty 
shall not be imposed upon it in terms of Section 44 of the Act.  
 
                                                            
1 Paragraph 30 of the case.  

 
Page 21 of 23 
 
30. 
CPPIB has submitted that Section 628 of Companies Act, 1956 is pari materia to 
Section 44 of the Act and means rea to wilfully omit a material fact is an essential 
element to prove contravention. Arguendo, it has also submitted that it had made full 
disclosure to the Commission Combination Reg. No. C-2017/11/536 and it does not 
have incentive to gain from a wilful omission.   
 
31. 
The Commission observes that Section 628 of Companies Act, 1956 envisages 
imprisonment as a punishment and thus, is a penal provision. However, Section 44 
does not entail penal consequences and only monetary penalties would be levied in 
case of contravention. While higher standard of proof is a requirement for penal 
proceedings, Section 44 proceedings may attract only civil liabilities.  
 
32. 
While the above defences have been taken by CPPIB, it has not controverted the 
basis of prima facie determination in the SCN regarding the omission by CPPIB to 
disclose about Transaction II despite knowing it to be material.  
 
33. 
In this regard, the Commission notes that: (a) ReNew approached CPPIB to provide 
funding to acquire Ostro and this acquisition has been claimed to as “a 
transformational acquisition”; (b) the Primary Acquisition in Transaction I was 
contemplated and pursued to support funding for Transaction II (i.e. Ostro 
Acquisition); (c) the evaluation of IRR by CPPIB for Transaction I was not limited 
to ReNew but is also inclusive of the business operations of Ostro, whose capacities 
were around 
 of the capacity of ReNew. Further, no other acquisition found a 
place in the Investment Recommendation of CPPIB despite the claim that ReNew 
contemplated several other acquisitions also; (d) the Investment Recommendation 
lists Ostro as one of the top ten IPP and was highlighted separately to signify its 
proposed acquisition by ReNew; (e) the Investment Recommendation further notes 
that “The projects [of Ostro] have 
* overlap with states where ReNew has 
operations and are diversified across OEMs (for wind projects) and off-takers. 
* 
of Ostro Assets (higher than for ReNew) are facing higher credit quality, federal off-
takers (NTPC and PTC)” Such a fact of horizontal overlap is a relevant and material 
consideration from a competition perspective also; and (f) in its press release dated 
3rd April, 2018 regarding Ostro acquisition by ReNew, CPPIB states that ‘…We 

 
Page 22 of 23 
 
congratulate ReNew Power on completing their significant acquisition…’ 
(emphasis added), which is also indicative of the fact that Ostro Acquisition was a 
material event. 
 
34. 
These show that Transaction II and developments in that regard are material 
fact(s)/consideration in pursuing Primary Acquisition in Transaction I and such 
materiality was well within the knowledge of CPPIB.  
 
35. 
CPPIB has contended that it had mentioned in the Notice that “The proposed 
Transaction represents an opportunity for ReNew to enable smooth shareholder 
transition, and secure primary funding to leverage for growth and expansion 
plans.”. This according to CPPIB amounts to full disclosure and thus, there was no 
suppression or omission on its part. The Commission notes that Form I under the 
Combination Regulations inter alia requires the notifying party to “Please explain 
the purpose (including business objective and/or economic rationale for each of the 
parties to the combination and how are they intended to be achieved) of the 
combination”. In spite of this requirement, no detail regarding Transaction II was 
disclosed to the Commission in the Form I filed by CPPIB in Combination 
Registration No. C-2017/11/536. Mere statement that Transaction I would secure 
primary funding to leverage the growth and expansion plans of ReNew cannot be 
taken as a disclosure about Transaction II. Such vague statements cannot meet the 
requirement to disclose material particular to the Commission. Having seen the 
extent of knowledge and the linkage between Primary Acquisition in Transaction I 
and Transaction II, CPPIB ought to have disclosed the details of Transaction II in 
the combination Notice filed for Transaction I. However, CPPIB having failed to do 
so, the Commission has no hesitation in concluding that CPPIB omitted to disclose 
a material particular, knowing it to be material. 
 
36. 
In terms of Section 43A of the Act, if any person or enterprise fails to give notice 
under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, the Commission shall impose on such 
person or enterprise, a penalty which may extend to one percent of the total turnover 
or the assets, whichever is higher, of such a combination. In case of contravention 
under Section 44, the person shall be liable to a penalty which shall not be less than 

 
Page 23 of 23 
 
rupees fifty lakhs but which may extend to rupees one crore, as may be determined 
by the Commission. 
 
37. 
Though the penalty under sections 43A and 44 of the Act can be to the extent 
mentioned therein, the Commission has sufficient discretion to consider the conduct 
of the Parties and the circumstances of the case to arrive at an appropriate amount of 
penalty. In the instant case, CPPIB and ReNew have extended cooperation in the 
inquiry and supplied requisite material/ documents in response to the information 
requirement of the Commission. Such material/ documents formed the basis of 
above findings of contravention. Considering these, the Commission considers it 
appropriate to impose a penalty of INR 50,00,000 (Rupees fifty lakh) on CPPIB. 
CPPIB shall pay the penalty within 60 days from the date of receipt of this Order. 
 
38. 
The Secretary is directed to inform CPPIB and ReNew, accordingly.  
 
 
