 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 1 of 12                                                                                                                                                              
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2013/05/122) 
 
19.12.2013 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
1. 
On 1st May 2013, the Competition Commission of India (hereinafter referred 
to as the “Commission”) received a notice under sub-section (2) of Section 6 
of the Competition Act, 2002 (“Act”) given by Etihad Airways PJSC 
(hereinafter referred to as “Etihad”) and Jet Airways (India) Limited 
(hereinafter referred to as “Jet”) (hereinafter Jet and Etihad are collectively 
referred to as the “Parties”).  
 
2. 
The notice was given to the Commission pursuant to an Investment Agreement 
(“IA”), a Shareholder’s Agreement (“SHA”) and a Commercial Co-operation 
Agreement (“CCA”), all executed on 24th April 2013. The Parties sought the 
Commission’s approval for the acquisition of 24 percent equity interest in Jet 
by Etihad and in relation to all the rights and benefits which the parties have 
commercially agreed upon in the amended SHA, CCA and CGC. As per the 
information provided by the Parties, they had also entered into agreements on 
26th February 2013 regarding sale of three landing/take-off slots of Jet at 
London Heathrow Airport to Etihad; and lease of the same slots back to Jet 
(“LHR Transaction”).  
 
3. 
Based on the information provided by the Parties and that available in the 
public domain, on 18th October 2013, the Commission issued a show cause 
notice to Etihad under Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India 
(General) Regulations, 2009 read with Section 43A of the Act (“Notice”). It 
was stated in the notice that the Parties consummated and implemented certain 
parts of the composite combination viz. LHR Transaction and CCA; and 
Etihad, being the acquirer in the combination, failed to give notice in 
accordance with sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. Etihad was therefore 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 2 of 12                                                                                                                                                              
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
called upon to show cause, in writing, within fifteen days of the notice as to 
why penalty in terms of Section 43A of the Act be not imposed on Etihad.  
 
4. 
The Commission, vide its order dated 12th November 2013, approved the 
combination under subsection (1) of Section 31 of the Act. However, the 
Commission, in its order, had observed that the approval shall have no bearing 
on proceedings under Section 43A of the Act. 
 
5. 
The Parties filed their response to the Notice on 28th October 2013. The 
submission of the Parties are briefly summarised as follows:  
 
(a) 
The LHR Transaction was an independent stand-alone transaction which 
did not form part of the combination. Completion of LHR Transaction 
was not in any manner subject to the condition that the proposed 
transaction (i.e. Etihad’s acquisition of 24 percent equity stake and other 
rights in Jet by way of the IA, SHA and CCA) must happen. Further, on 
the issue of IA and LHR Sale Agreement making reference to each 
other, Etihad  contended that it was only for the sake of clarity that the 
documentation in respect of LHR Transaction and proposed transaction 
made a reference to each other.  Such references  were incorporated to 
record the entirety of the commercial transactions entered into between 
the same Parties in the recent past and such references do not necessitate 
a narrow interpretation to the effect that LHR Transaction and the 
proposed transaction were inter-dependent. 
 
(b) 
Even if LHR Transaction was assumed to be a part of the proposed 
combination, the trigger document under the Act for filing the 
notification to the Commission continued to be the IA; 
 
(c) 
The LHR Transaction was an exempted transaction under Item (3) of 
Schedule I to the Combination Regulations.  LHR Transaction was 
pursued in the ordinary course of business and the 3 slots acquired did 
not represent Jet’s substantial business operations in/from London on 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 3 of 12                                                                                                                                                              
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
account of the fact that slots merely represent the landing rights enjoyed 
by Jet at LHR Airport whereas, Jet’s actual revenue and business 
operations comprised of ticket sales from its flight to London. It has 
been mentioned that the book value (depreciated) of the three pairs of 
slots was only a fraction of Jet’s worldwide assets. It has also been stated 
that Jet’s revenue from its India – London operations in 2012-13 was 
[********]1 and its revenue in the six months period post completion of 
the LHR Transaction was [********]2. Further, there had been no 
change or impact on the business operations of Jet in the India-London 
sector.  
 
(d) 
The LHR Transaction was exempted under Item (10) of Schedule I to 
the Combination Regulations. On the application of Item 10 of Schedule 
I to the Combination Regulations, Etihad submits that the LHR 
Transaction had no effect on the markets in India as LHR Transaction 
was purely an offshore transaction; after the expiry of lease, Jet may 
seek a fresh lease from Etihad or choose to use non-value slots (off-peak 
slots) at LHR or may acquire value slots at other airports at London; 
since Jet continued to use the slots sold to Etihad to offer services 
between India and London, there was no change in the competition 
scenario post transaction; and also that the slots transaction was purely 
necessitated by Jet’s need to raise funds.  
 
(e) 
Clause 7 of CCA provides that as soon as reasonably practicable after 
the commencement date of the CCA i.e. 24th April 2013, the Parties 
would seek all applicable competition/anti-trust immunity approvals 
required to give effect to the cooperation contemplated under CCA 
(emphasis supplied). Further, clause 7.3 of CCA explicitly provides that 
if the Parties do not obtain the requisite competition approvals to the 
extent necessary to fully implement the cooperation anticipated under 
CCA, the Parties shall mutually determine and implement in good faith 
                                                          
1 Claimed confidential by the Parties. 
2 Ibid. 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 4 of 12                                                                                                                                                              
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
what cooperation can be achieved and implemented within the 
regulatory and competition approvals obtained or mutually decide to 
terminate CCA.  
 
(f) 
Conduct of the Parties (in relation to pricing) pursuant to their code 
share agreement dated 1st July 2008 does not amount to an 
implementation of the CCA; and 
 
(g) 
Discontinuation of flights on certain routes by Jet was an independent 
commercial decision taken by Jet, which had no relation with the CCA.  
 
6. 
The Commission also heard Etihad on 10th December 2013.  
 
7. 
With respect to the submission of Etihad regarding LHR Transaction, it is 
observed as follows:  
 
6.1 
The IA stipulated that the Commission’s approval for implementation 
of the arrangements provided for in each of the Transaction 
Document was a condition precedent to its closing. The IA defined 
the term Transaction Document as “this agreement [IA], the 
Shareholders Agreement, the Commercial Co-operation Agreement, 
the LHR Slots Agreement [agreements effecting LHR Transaction], 
the FFP Term Sheet, the Phase I Financing Documents...” (emphasis 
supplied). These provisions of the IA and LHR Sale Agreement 
suggest that the Parties had consciously treated/pursued these two 
transactions as related transactions.  While it may be open for Jet to 
sell its slots to any airline to meet its financial needs, the fact that the 
slots were sold to Etihad; and the IA (a) incorporates LHR Slots 
Agreement as one of the Transaction Documents and (b) stipulates 
the Commission’s approval for implementation of the arrangements 
provided for in each Transaction Document, suggest that the Parties 
intended to pursue different steps including the IA, SHA, CCA and 
the LHR Slots Agreement as one composite business combination.  

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 5 of 12                                                                                                                                                              
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
6.2 
It is also noted that the relevant clause of the LHR Sale Agreement 
identifies non-execution of the IA within 30 days as an event of 
default, giving Etihad the right to terminate the LHR Transaction or 
change the completion date of the LHR Sale Agreement.  It has been 
argued by Etihad that ‘the fact that there are two options evidences 
the fact that non-consummation of the proposed transaction was not a 
ground for termination but allowed for the  LHR Transaction 
completion date to be advanced to a date earlier than 4th April 2013, 
thus consummating the LHR Transaction irrespective of the proposed 
transaction’. It is observed that another clause of the LHR Sale 
Agreement confers on Etihad the right to terminate the agreement if 
the IA and SHA are not executed within 30 days from the execution 
of the LHR Sale Agreement. Though it was optional for Etihad to 
terminate the agreement, inclusion of a condition that IA and SHA 
had to be executed within 30 days to avoid an event of default, only  
indicates the intent of the Parties to pursue the IA, SHA and the LHR 
Slots Agreement as one composite business combination. 
 
6.3 
Citing reference to the above referred clauses of LHR Transaction 
Agreements and IA, Etihad alludes that LHR Transaction and the IA 
are not inter-dependent on each other. It was also contended that even 
if the LHR Transaction formed part of the combination, the IA 
continued to be the triggering document for giving notice to the 
Commission under Section 6 (2) of the Act. This argument of Etihad 
cannot be accepted in view of the aforesaid facts. Moreover, if the 
Parties had treated the IA and LHR Transactions as entirely different 
and independent of each other, the relevant agreements i.e. IA and the 
LHR Sale Agreement would not have made any reference to each 
other particularly in the context of an event of default and as 
conditions precedent. In view of the foregoing, the contention of 
Etihad that the LHR Transaction was an independent standalone 
transaction is not tenable.  

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 6 of 12                                                                                                                                                              
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
6.4 
Even assuming LHR Transaction as an independent transaction, the 
Parties ought to have given a separate notice to the Commission 
under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act as the LHR transaction 
as an independent transaction, is not covered within the scope of Item 
3 and Item 10 of Schedule I to the Combination Regulations.  
 
6.5 
Item 3 of Schedule I to the Combination Regulations reads as under:  
 
‘An acquisition of assets, referred to in sub- clause (i) or sub-
clause (ii) of clause (a) of section 5 of the Act, not directly related 
to the business activity of the party acquiring the asset or made 
solely as an investment or in the ordinary course of business, not 
leading to control of the enterprise whose assets are being 
acquired except where the assets being acquired represent 
substantial business operations in a particular location or for a 
particular product or service of the enterprise, of which assets are 
being acquired, irrespective of whether such assets are organized 
as a separate legal entity or not.’  
 
6.6 
As regards the applicability of Item 3 of Schedule I to the 
Combination Regulations, it is observed that the sale/purchase of 
landing/take-off slots may generally be treated as a transaction in the 
ordinary course of business. However, in the instant case, the slots 
sale were coupled with another agreement to lease back the same 
slots to the seller; and followed by acquisition of equity stake in Jet 
by Etihad and a wide-ranging commercial co-operation agreement 
between the Parties.  
 
6.7 
It is further observed that exception to Item 3 to Schedule I 
categorically provides that acquisition of assets that represent the 
substantial business operations of the target enterprise, in a particular 
location or for a particular product or service, are not covered within 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 7 of 12                                                                                                                                                              
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
the scope of Item 3. In the instant case, Jet has been offering its 
service between India and London through the use of the three (3) 
landing/take-off slots at LHR Airport. Further, Jet neither owned any 
other slots nor offered services to/from any other airport in London. 
Therefore, the three (3) landing/take-off slots at LHR Airport formed 
the basis of Jet’s entire business operation between India and London. 
Etihad’s contention that the value of the slots sold was a fraction of 
Jet’s worldwide asset is also not tenable as the relevant yardstick for 
comparison is Jet’s business operations between India and London. 
Considering that Jet had no other take-off/landing slots at London, 
the 3 slots formed the basis for Jet’s entire services between India and 
London; and absent these slots, Jet would have no business operation 
nor would have earned any revenue in the said sector. Therefore, it is 
considered that the subject matter of acquisition effectively 
represented the entire operations of Jet between India and London. 
For the same reason, the submission of Etihad regarding exemption 
under Item 3 of Schedule I to the Combination Regulations is not 
tenable.     
 
6.8 
The contention of Etihad to the extent that the LHR Transaction does 
not change the market scenario and therefore Item 10 is applicable in 
the instant case is misconceived as the same is of no relevance in 
determining whether notice needs to be given to the Commission. 
This is primarily because the framework of the Act as well as the 
Combination Regulations requires the Commission to determine the 
likely competition concerns of combinations with a view to regulate 
the same. Though Item 10 uses the words ‘insignificant local nexus 
and effect on markets in India’, the terms nexus and effect could not 
be understood to mean a greater or reasonable probability of the 
proposed combination causing/raising any competition concern. 
Rather these words essentially mean the sufficient relevance of the 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 8 of 12                                                                                                                                                              
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
proposed combination to the markets in India, which would depend 
on the facts and circumstances of each case.  
 
6.9 
In the instant case, Jet had been using the 3 LHR slots for the purpose 
of offering services between India and London. In such a case, these 
slots beyond doubt relate to/concern the services enjoyed by 
passengers from/to India and the claim of Etihad that the transaction 
has no effect on the markets in India is misplaced and cannot be 
agreed with. 
 
6.10 
In view of the foregoing, it is observed that the Parties consummated 
the LHR Transaction, a part of the combination, without giving notice 
to the Commission as well as without waiting for the approval of the 
Commission.  Even if the LHR Transaction was assumed to be an 
independent transaction, the Parties failed to give notice to the 
Commission as the LHR Transaction did not fall under the 
exemptions as now claimed by the Parties.   
 
8. 
With respect to the submission of Etihad regarding CCA, it is observed as 
follows:  
 
7.1 
While Clause 7 of CCA clearly envisages that the Parties have to seek 
required competition/anti-trust immunity approvals and the Parties 
would change the terms of cooperation or terminate CCA if they do 
not obtain regulatory and competition/antitrust approvals, CCA 
nowhere provides that the Parties would not give effect to it until the 
approval of the Commission. The Parties initially executed CCA on 
24th April 2013. Subsequently, the Parties restated and re-executed 
CCA on 27th May 2013, 5th September 2013 and 19th September 
2013. All the subsequent versions of the CCA consciously provide 
that the CCA shall come into force on 24th April 2013. 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 9 of 12                                                                                                                                                              
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
7.2 
The Parties’ submission that clause 7 of the CCA requires them to 
take competition/anti-trust approval to give effect to the cooperation 
contemplated under the CCA is baseless since these words are not 
found in clause 7. Unlike the IA, the Commission’s approval is not a 
condition precedent to the closing of the CCA.  
 
7.3 
While the Parties deny that they have taken any action to implement 
the terms of the CCA, Jet’s recent conduct of offering new daily 
services between Kochi and Abu Dhabi and leasing 3 of its Boeing 
777-300(ER)s to Turkish Airlines are in conjunction with the 
obligations agreed under clause 2.2.1 and clause 2.2.3 of the CCA 
whereby it was agreed that: (a) Jet will add new daily services 
between Abu Dhabi and different call points in India no later than 
2013 IATA winter season; and (b) Jet may sub-lease upto three of its 
finance leased B777-300ERs for a period of twelve months and the 
remainder of the said aircrafts shall be in Jet’s fleet on or before 30th 
November, 2013. On a specific query posed during the hearing, 
Etihad submitted that the said actions were just a coincidence and 
were not done to implement the provisions of the CCA. These actions 
cannot be taken as mere coincidence but only suggests coordination 
between the Parties in vital aspects. Therefore, in the facts and 
circumstances of the case, we are not able to accept that the Parties 
have not taken any action to implement the provisions of the CCA 
and the Parties awaited the Commission’s approval to implement the 
provisions of the CCA.   
 
7.4 
In view of the foregoing, it is concluded that the Parties implemented 
CCA before giving notice to the Commission and continued with 
certain actions that were in conjunction with some of the obligations 
envisaged under the CCA without awaiting the approval of the 
Commission.   
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 10 of 12                                                                                                                                                              
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
9. 
It is observed that sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act requires any person 
or enterprise, who or which proposes to enter into a combination, to give 
notice to the Commission disclosing the details of the proposed combination, 
within the time prescribed therein (emphasis supplied). In the instant case, the 
Parties consummated LHR Transaction without giving notice to the 
Commission. Similarly, the Parties agreed that CCA shall come into force on 
24th April 2013, whereas the notice was given to the Commission only on 1st 
May 2013. Moreover, the Parties even pursued certain actions, both before and 
after giving notice, that are in conjunction with the obligations envisaged 
under the CCA, without waiting for the approval of the Commission. 
 
10. 
In view of the foregoing, it is concluded that Etihad failed to give notice under 
sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act of LHR Transaction and CCA and the 
Parties implemented LHR Transaction and CCA without giving notice as well 
as without awaiting the approval of the Commission.   
 
11. 
In terms of Section 43A of the Act, if any person or enterprise fails to give 
notice under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, the Commission shall 
impose on such person or enterprise, a penalty which may extend to one 
percent of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, of such a 
combination. In the instant case, one percent of the combined value of turnover 
of the Parties is more than INR 400 crore and one percent of the combined 
value of asset of the parties is more than INR 700 crore. 
 
12. 
It is a settled law that every discretion has to be exercised judicially. Section 
43(A) of the Act gives discretion to the Commission to impose penalty in case 
a person or enterprise fails to give notice to the Commission under section 6(2) 
of the Act.  This penalty can extend up to 1% of the total turnover or the assets 
of such a combination, whichever is higher. Thus the discretion available to 
the Commission is quite wide.  The Commission may impose penalty of only a 
token amount or up to 1% of the turnover or assets of the combination.  While 
exercising this discretion, the Commission has to keep into mind the conduct 
of the parties and the circumstance under which the parties failed to give notice 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 11 of 12                                                                                                                                                              
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
to the Commission.  In the present case, the parties filed before the 
Commission, the combination for approval on 1st May, 2013. In the 
combination, the parties made disclosure of all the agreements entered into 
between them including LHR transaction and CCA.  Thus, it is apparent that 
there was no effort on the part of the parties to conceal the transactions from 
the Commission.  The fact of consummation of LHR and CCA has also been 
gathered by the Commission only from the filings made by the parties. The 
contention of the parties is that they were under an impression that LHR was 
an independent transaction.  This contention has not found favour with this 
Commission but the fact remains that the party was under an impression, 
though wrongly, that LHR transaction was an independent transaction and the 
party consummated LHR transaction.  Notice of CCA was given to the 
Commission within the time limit prescribed by law.  Some actions required to 
be taken under CCA were taken by the parties during pendency of the approval 
application before the Commission.  However, it cannot be denied that the 
parties had been mending and changing transaction terms and conditions 
according to the advise/requirements of different regulators from time to time. 
This fact is also evident that one of the parties to the combination was in dire 
need of financial support being provided by the other party to the combination 
and it seems to have shown its willingness and bona-fides by taking steps in 
accordance with CCA during pendency of approval itself.  These facts show 
that the conduct of the parties was not such so as to attract severe penalty and 
the conduct of parties in consummating LHR transaction and CCA was under 
the circumstances stated above.  The Commission therefore considers that in 
the instant case, keeping in view the facts and circumstances, the penalty of 
INR one crore would serve the ends of the justice.  The Commission, 
therefore, in exercise of powers under Section 43A of the Act imposes a 
penalty of INR 1,00,00,000 (Rupees one crore) on Etihad as the obligation to 
give notice to the Commission, as per Regulation 9 of the Competition 
Commission of India (Procedure in regard to the transaction of business 
relating to combinations) Regulations 2011, was on Etihad.  Etihad shall pay 
the penalty within 60 days from the date of this order. 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
Page 12 of 12                                                                                                                                                              
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
13. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to Etihad accordingly. 
 
 
-sd- 
(Ashok Chawla) 
Chairperson 
 
 
-sd- 
(Geeta Gouri) 
Member 
 
 
-sd- 
(M.L. Tayal) 
Member 
 
 
-sd- 
(S.N. Dhingra) 
Member 
 
 
-sd- 
(S.L. Bunker) 
Member 
 
