 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/12/344) 
 
 
Page 1 of 7 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
14.02.2017 
 
Notice given by Sarva Haryana Gramin Bank and Punjab National Bank 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 (“Act”) 
 
1. 
The Competition Commission of India (“Commission”), in its Special Meeting held on 
10.02.2014, took cognizance of information received in respect of amalgamation of 
Gurgaon Gramin Bank (“GGB”) (sponsored by Syndicate Bank ) and Haryana Gramin 
Bank (“HGB”) (sponsored by Punjab National Bank) into Sarva Haryana Gramin Bank 
(“SHGB”) and designation of PNB as the sole sponsor bank of SHGB 
(“Combination”). The Combination came into effect from 29.11.2013 vide a Gazette 
of India Notification dated 29.11.2013 issued by the Department of Financial Services, 
Ministry of Finance, Government of India (“DFS”) under sub-section (1) of Section 
23A of the Regional Rural Banks Act, 1976 (“RRB Act”) (“Notification”). 
 
2. 
Accordingly, letters were sent to the SHGB and the DFS on 17.02.2014 directing them 
to intimate the reasons as to why an inquiry under sub-section (1) of Section 20 of the 
Act should not be commenced. The Commission received replies from SHGB and DFS 
on 20.02.2014 and 21.03.2014 respectively.   
 
3. 
The Commission considered the replies of the DFS and SHGB in its Special Meeting 
held on 12.05.2014 and decided that the Combination meets the thresholds prescribed 
under the Act and is notifiable. Accordingly, vide letter dated 28.05.2014, SHGB and 
DFS were directed, under sub-section (1) of Section 20 of the Act read with Regulation 
8 of the Competition Commission of India (Procedure in regard to the transaction of 
business relating to Combinations) (“Combination Regulations”), to file a notice in 
respect of the Combination. SHGB and the DFS filed additional responses on 
13.06.2014 and 28.08.2014 respectively. The matter was again considered by the 
Commission in its meeting held on 15.09.2014 and 20.10.2014 and the Commission 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/12/344) 
 
 
Page 2 of 7 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
decided to seek certain additional clarifications from the DFS on certain issues relating 
to the Combination and on certain other related issues. Accordingly, a letter was issued 
to the DFS on 21.10.2014.  The DFS submitted its reply on 01.12.2014. The 
Commission considered the reply given by DFS in its meetings on 12.01.2015 and 
04.08.2015. After considering all the replies filed by SHGB and the DFS, the 
Commission decided that the Combination is notifiable. Accordingly, vide letters dated 
26.08.2015, SHGB and PNB (hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Parties”) were 
directed, under sub-section (1) of Section 20 of the Competition Act, 2002 (“Act”) read 
with Regulation 8 of the Combination Regulations, to file a joint notice in Form I in 
respect of merger of GGB and HGB and PNB’s acquisition of sole sponsorship of 
SHGB. 
 
4. 
On 01.10.2015, the Parties, in compliance of the directions of the Commission, filed a 
notice in relation to the Combination. However, as the same was not complete, the 
Commission decided to invalidate the same. The Parties, subsequently, filed a fresh 
notice on 01.12.2015 in this regard.  
 
5. 
On 24.05.2016, the Commission considered and assessed the Combination and 
approved the same under sub-section (1) of Section 31of the Act. 
 
 Proceedings under Section 43A of the Act 
 
6. 
In its meeting held on 24.05.2016, the Commission observed that in terms of sub-
section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, an enterprise, which proposes to enter into a 
combination, is required to give a notice to the Commission, disclosing the details of 
the proposed combination, within thirty days of execution of any agreement or other 
document for acquisition. Further, as per sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of the Act, no 
combination shall come into effect until 210 days have passed from the day on which 
the notice has been given to the Commission under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the 
Act or the Commission has passed orders under Section 31 of the Act, whichever is 
earlier. 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/12/344) 
 
 
Page 3 of 7 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
7. 
Considering the facts on record, the Commission noted that SHGB and PNB not only 
failed to notify the Combination in terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act 
within the time stipulated under the provisions of the Act but also consummated the 
same before the expiry of statutory timelines as provided in sub-section (2A) of Section 
6 of the Act. Accordingly, the Commission decided to initiate proceedings against the 
Parties under Section 43A of the Act. 
 
8. 
A show cause notice, under Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the 
Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009 (“General 
Regulations”), was issued to the Parties on 15.06.2016, to explain, in writing, within 
15 days of the receipt of such communication, as to why penalty, in terms of Section 
43A of the Act, should not be imposed on the Parties for failure to file a notice in 
respect of the Combination and consummating the same before expiry of statutory 
timelines, under sub-section (2) of Section 6 read with sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of 
the Act (“SCN”). The Parties filed its response to the SCN with the Commission on 
14.07.2016 (“Response to SCN”), after seeking extension of time. 
 
9. 
In its meeting held on 21.09.2016, the Commission considered the Response to SCN 
and decided to grant an oral hearing to the Parties. The authorized representative of the 
Parties was heard on 23.11.2016. The Commission noted that, vide its written and oral 
submissions, the Parties, inter alia, made the following submissions:  
 
9.1. That the decision of amalgamation of RRBs in the State of Haryana into single Bank i.e. 
SHGB has been taken by the DFS in exercise of its statutory functions under the RRB 
Act. The DFS, while discharging statutory powers under RRB Act, in exercise of such 
statutory function, cannot be termed as an “enterprise” under clause (h) of section 2 of 
the Act since this “activity” is not covered in terms of explanation (a) to clause (h) of 
section 2 of the Act. The decision taken by the Central Government in exercise of 
statutory function, as aforesaid, is akin to a policy decision taken in public interest 
which is outside the purview of the Act. 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/12/344) 
 
 
Page 4 of 7 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
9.2. That the power of the Commission to initiate an inquiry under sub-section (1) of Section 
20 of the Act, is limited to examine whether a combination has caused or likely to cause 
an appreciable adverse effect on competition in India and can be exercised only within a 
period of one year from the date on which such combination has taken effect. Since the 
Commission, in exercise of the said powers under sub-section (1) of Section 20 of the 
Act, has already examined the said amalgamation and found that the same is not likely 
to cause any appreciable adverse effect on competition in India, the initiation of a 
separate inquiry in terms of section 43A of the Act for allegedly a belated filing of 
notice under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act is akin to initiating prosecution for 
the same offence twice, which is barred under Article 20(2) of the Constitution of India 
as such action suffers from the vice of double jeopardy and is not legally permissible 
and may be ultra vires the provisions of Article 20(2) of the Constitution of India. 
 
9.3. That the amalgamation in question was even otherwise exempt from filing notice under 
sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, in terms of category (9) of Schedule-1 read with 
Regulation 4 of the Combination Regulations, which exempts intra-group mergers and 
amalgamations, since the two Regional Rural Banks in the State of Haryana before the 
amalgamation and the new entity i.e. single Regional Rural Bank created as a result of 
the amalgamation, namely, SHGB continued to be owned and controlled by the 
enterprises i.e. Union of India, State of Haryana and Sponsor Bank, in the same ratio of 
50:15:35. The enterprises to which the new entity SHGB belongs to and is controlled by 
continue to be within the same group in the absence of any change in control. 
 
9.4. That the SHGB and PNB cannot be considered as “parties to the combination“ or 
“person or enterprise who or which proposes to enter into a combination” in terms of 
sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act because (a) SHGB was not in existence when the 
Notification of the said amalgamation was issued by the DFS of the Central 
Government, (b) PNB did not and could not have taken the decision to become the 
sponsor bank for SHGB since it had no such powers under the RRB Act, which power 
vested only with the Central Government /DFS under the said Act.   
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/12/344) 
 
 
Page 5 of 7 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
9.5. That SHGB and PNB are government undertakings providing banking services to the 
farmers in rural areas of the Haryana and thereby contribute to the economic 
development of the poor farmers in the state and that the decision of amalgamation was 
taken by the DFS in public interest and in the interest of development of area served by 
the RRBs. 
 
9.6. That the Parties provided prompt responses to each notice received from the 
Commission and that there is no negligence on the part of either SHGB or PNB and 
both have given their full cooperation during the Commission’s inquiry under sub-
section (1) of Section 20 of the Act. 
 
9.7. That this is the first case where a presumed violation of the provisions of the Act has 
been alleged either on SHGB or PNB and neither is a repeat offender under the Act and 
that there was no mala fide intention of either SHGB or PNB to evade the compliance 
with the provisions of the Act. 
 
10. 
With respect to the above submissions of the Parties, the Commission observed as 
under:  
 
10.1. As regards the submissions of the Parties on the aspect of the DFS being an enterprise 
or not, it may be noted that the SCN is in respect of the responsibilities of the Parties to 
file notice which are not obliterated by the fact of the decision being taken by the DFS. 
As the inquiry is not against the DFS, the submissions of the Parties in this regard are 
not tenable. 
 
10.2. It has been submitted that initiation of a separate inquiry in terms of Section 43A after 
an inquiry under sub-section (1) of Section 20 of the Act suffers from a vice of double 
jeopardy. In this regard, Commission observed that initiation of sub-section (1) of 
Section 20 inquiry into the combination and approval of the Combination does not 
exempt the Parties from penalty proceedings under Section 43A of the Act. The Hon’ble 
Competition Appellate Tribunal (“COMPAT”), while adjudicating the issue of whether 
the approval of the combination by the Commission can confer immunity to the 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/12/344) 
 
 
Page 6 of 7 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
appellants from being penalized under Section 43A of the Act in an appeal filed in 
relation to an order passed, under Section 43A of the Act, by the Commission in SCM 
Soilfert Limited and Deepak Fertilizers and Petrochemicals Corporation Limited 1 
(“SCM Case”) has observed, “Sections 31 and 43A of the Act operate in two different 
fields. The Commission has the power to approve a combination under Section 31 and 
such approval neither obliterates nor condones the contravention, for which penalty is 
to be imposed under Section 43A.” 
 
10.3. As regards the Combination being an intra-group transaction, it may be noted that the 
HGB and GGB were two independent banks engaged in provision of banking services 
before the amalgamation and were not part of the same group. Further, the exit of 
sponsor bank of GGB i.e. Syndicate bank and acquisition of sole sponsorship of SHGB 
by PNB also tantamount to change in control and is notifiable.  
 
10.4. Parties have submitted that SHGB and PNB can’t be considered as “parties to the 
combination in terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act because SHGB was not 
in existence when the notification of the said amalgamation was issued by DFS.  In this 
regard it may be noted that sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act refers to the person 
and enterprise, on whom the duty of giving a notice to the Commission falls in case of 
proposed combination and not after the consummation of the combination.  If the 
arguments of the Parties were to be accepted, it would mean that the onus of filing a 
belated notice would fall on none, this certainly can’t be the intent of the Act.  The Act 
expressly covers cases of belated filing for assessment of the Commission.  The 
Commission is of the considered opinion that in cases of consummated combination 
specially pertaining to amalgamation wherein at least one of the original parties cease to 
exist, the onus of filing the notice would squarely lie on the resultant entity.  In the 
present case it would be SHGB and PNB. 
 
10.5. The Commission, however, noted that the structure of a Combination is unique to the 
extent in as much as the decision in respect of the same was taken by the Central 
                                                          
1 Appeal No. 59/2015, COMPAT Order dated 30.08.2016 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/12/344) 
 
 
Page 7 of 7 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Government (and not only the Parties) and that the Combination was effected 
immediately subsequent to the issuance of the Notification. 
 
11. 
In view of the foregoing, the Commission observed that the failure to file the 
Combination and consummating a part of the Combination before the approval of the 
same by the Commission attracts penalty under Section 43A of the Act. Section 43A of 
the Act reads as under: 
 
 “If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission under sub 
section (2) of section 6, the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a 
penalty which may extend to one percent of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is 
higher, of such a combination.”  
 
12. 
While determining the quantum of penalty, the Commission, considered the 
specificities of the case and explanation given by the Parties and deemed it appropriate 
to impose a penalty of INR 1,00,000/- (INR One lakh only) on the Parties. The Parties 
shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of this order. 
 
13. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Parties accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
