 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 22 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
Combination Registration No. C-2024/04/1139 
 
07th March 2025 
Proceedings under section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 (Act) in relation to notice 
filed under sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Act by Matrix Pharma Private Limited, 
Mudhra Labs Private Limited, Mudhra Lifesciences Private Limited, Mudhra 
Pharmacorp LLP, Kotak Strategic Situations India Fund II - a fund managed by Kotak 
Alternate Asset Managers Limited, and Kingsman Wealth Fund PCC Aurisse Special 
Opportunities Fund 
 
 
CORAM:  
 
Ms. Ravneet Kaur 
Chairperson 
 
Mr. Anil Agrawal  
Member 
 
Ms. Sweta Kakkad 
Member 
 
Appearances: Mr. Abhik Ghosh, Advocate 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
A. 
BACKGROUND 
1. 
The Competition Commission of India (Commission) in its meeting held on 28th May 
2024 had considered the notice dated 23rd April 2024 (Notice) received under sub-
section (2) of Section 6 of the Competition Act, 2002 (Act) filed by Matrix Pharma 
Private Limited (Acquirer), Mudhra Labs Private Limited (Mudhra Labs), Mudhra 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 22 
 
Lifesciences Private Limited (Mudhra Lifesciences), Mudhra Pharmacorp LLP 
(Mudhra Pharmacorp), Kotak Strategic Situations India Fund II (KSSIF/ Investor 1), 
Kotak Alternate Asset Managers Limited (KAAML/ Investor 2), and Kingsman Wealth 
Fund PCC Aurisse Special Opportunities Fund (Kingsman)  [hereinafter, Mudhra Labs, 
Mudhra Lifesciences, and Mudhra Pharmacorp are collectively referred to as the 
Acquirer Holding Entities; Investor 1 and Investor 2 are collectively referred to as the 
Investors; and, the Acquirer, Acquirer Holding Entities, Investors, and Kingsman are 
collectively referred to as Acquirers/ Notifying Parties] and passed an order under sub-
section (1) of Section 31 of the Act approving the Proposed Combination (as defined 
below), without prejudice to any proceeding under Section 43A of the Act (Order).  
Description of the Parties 
2. 
Acquirer: The Acquirer is a private limited company incorporated in India in 2022 for 
the purpose of acquisition of the Tianish Laboratories Private Limited (Target). It does 
not have any subsidiaries or affiliates and does not presently carry out any business 
activity either in India or outside India [hereinafter, the Acquirers and the Target are 
together referred to as Parties]. 
3. 
Acquirer Holding Entities: Mudhra Lifesciences and Mudhra Pharmacorp are the 
shareholders of Mudhra Labs, which is the direct holding company of the Acquirer. In 
other terms, Mudhra Labs is a subsidiary of Mudhra Lifesciences and an affiliate of 
Mudhra Pharmacorp, and the Acquirer is a subsidiary of Mudhra Labs. Mudhra 
Lifesciences and Mudhra Pharmacorp are controlled by Mr. Venkata Pranav Reddy 
Gunupati (Pranav) who is also the majority owner in both entities. Accordingly, Pranav 
is the ultimate beneficial owner and person in control of the Acquirer and the Acquirer 
Holding Entities, which are all part of the same group.  
4. 
Acquirer Group: Pranav together with certain of his family members, also holds direct 
and indirect investments in several other companies, several of which have been made 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 22 
 
through IQuest, which is also a party to the SPA. Accordingly, the entities over which 
Pranav (including his family members) has: (a) direct or indirect shareholding of 10% or 
more; or (b) a right or ability to exercise any right not available to ordinary shareholders 
(including any advantage of a commercial nature); or (c) a right or ability to nominate a 
director or observer, have been considered as the ‘Acquirer Group’. 
5. 
Investor 1: Investor 1 is a scheme of Kotak Strategic Situations Trust, a trust set up 
under the Indian Trust Act, 1882 and registered with Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (SEBI) as a Category-II Alternate Investment Fund.  
6. 
Investor 2: KAAML is the settlor and manager of Investor 1. Kotak Mahindra Bank 
Limited holds, directly and indirectly, 100% of its shareholding. It acts as an investment 
manager, engaged in the business of managing and advising funds across various asset 
classes. 
7. 
Kingsman: Kingsman is incorporated as a protected cell public company limited by 
shares in Mauritius and holds a Global Business License issued by the Financial Services 
Commission (FSC), Mauritius. It is regulated by the FSC as an open-ended fund 
classifying as a self-managed expert fund for the purposes of the Securities Act, 2005 
and the Securities (Collective Investment Schemes and Closed-End Funds) Regulations, 
2008. It is also registered as a foreign portfolio investor with SEBI.  
8. 
Target: The Target is a private limited company incorporated in India in 2023. It is a 
wholly owned subsidiary of Mylan India, which in turn is an indirect subsidiary of Viatris 
Inc. (Viatris), the ultimate parent company of the Viatris group (Viatris Group). The 
Target does not have any subsidiaries or affiliates. The Target has taken over the active 
pharmaceutical ingredients (API) manufacturing business (API Business) of Mylan 
Laboratories Limited (Mylan India) and is engaged in the manufacture of APIs in India, 
which business was formerly carried out by Mylan India and transferred to the Target 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 22 
 
pursuant to a scheme of demerger which was made effective from 1st March 2024. 
Currently, the API Business of the Target comprises 290 APIs in its portfolio. 
Transaction 
9. 
The Notice was filed with the Commission for approval of the following Combination: 
i. 
Purchase of equity shares of the Target by the Acquirer, constituting 100% of the 
issued and paid-up share capital of the Target on a fully diluted basis (Proposed 
Acquisition);  
ii. 
Proposed subscription to optionally convertible debentures of Mudhra Labs by 
Investors (Proposed KSSIF/KAAML Investment);  
iii. 
Subscription to compulsorily convertible preference shares of Mudhra 
Lifesciences by Kingsman (Kingsman Funding). 
Since the Acquirer was receiving funding pursuant to the Proposed KSSIF/KAAML 
Investment and Kingsman Funding, both were considered as inter-connected with the 
Proposed Acquisition [together, the Combination]. 
10. 
In addition to above, it was submitted in the Notice that in order to ensure funding for 
the Acquirer to undertake the Proposed Acquisition, the Acquirer Holding Entities had 
partly funded the Acquirer by way of investments from: (i) Mudhra Lifesciences by way 
of subscription to equity shares and compulsorily convertible preference shares (CCPS) 
in Mudhra Labs and (ii) Mudhra Pharmacorp by way of subscription to equity shares in 
Mudhra Labs. Mudhra Labs in turn invested the proceeds of these investments received 
by it in the Acquirer by way of subscription to equity shares, to be utilized by the 
Acquirer for its acquisition of the Target in the Proposed Acquisition. The investments 
by Mudhra Lifesciences and Mudhra Pharmacorp in Mudhra Labs and by Mudhra Labs 
in the Acquirer are collectively referred to as the ‘Acquirer Funding’. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 22 
 
11. 
Regarding entities investing in Mudhra Lifesciences, it was mentioned that other than 
Kingsman, Mudhra Lifesciences had received equity investment from Pranav, who is the 
ultimate beneficial owner and person in control of Mudhra Lifesciences.  
12. 
Regarding entities investing in Mudhra Pharmacorp, it was stated that the minority 
partners of Mudhra Pharmacorp are Govipri Infra LLP and Sujatha Ravuri, who had 
contributed capital to Mudhra Pharmacorp in accordance with the Amended and Restated 
Limited Liability Partnership Agreement dated 5th April 2024 entered into between 
Pranav, Govipri Infra LLP and Sujatha Ravuri. Govipri Infra LLP is wholly owned by 
family members of Mr. Pranav Reddy. Other than the above, Mudhra Pharmacorp LLP 
had not received investments from any other person or entity. 
13. 
Regarding investment by Investors in Mudhra Labs through Optionally Convertible 
Debentures (OCDs), it was submitted that the amount to be invested by the Investors 
towards subscription of the OCDs was not yet remitted to Mudhra Labs and accordingly, 
OCDs were yet to be issued by Mudhra Labs. It was stated that the investment amount 
will be remitted and the OCDs will be issued only after all the conditions precedent to 
the closing of the proposed investment by the Investors had been satisfied, including 
obtaining the approval of the Commission. Upon receipt of the investment from the 
Investors towards subscription of the OCDs, this amount would be further invested by 
Mudhra Labs in the Acquirer, towards subscription of Compulsorily Convertible 
Debentures. Further, it was clarified that the Investors’ knowledge of the Proposed 
Acquisition was only limited to its own investment in Mudhra Labs which had not been 
completed. 
14. 
The Parties confirmed that certain considerations relating to Acquirer Funding had been 
paid prior to the filing of the Notice, as set out below: 
i. 
Kingsman Funding: On 5th April 2024, the investment by Kingsman in Mudhra 
Lifesciences by way of subscription to CCPS was completed after being deemed to 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 22 
 
have been approved by the Commission pursuant to the submission of a notice in 
Form I (bearing registration no. C-2024/04/1130) under the green channel (Green 
Channel Notice) which was acknowledged by the Commission on 4th April 2024. 
ii. 
Acquirer Funding 
a. Investment by Mudhra Lifesciences in Mudhra Labs: It was stated that the 
entire investment that was proposed to be made by Mudhra Lifesciences in 
Mudhra Labs by way of subscription/ purchase of 44.23% equity shareholding 
of Mudhra Labs (on a fully diluted basis) and by way of subscription to CCPS 
(constituting 30.33% equity shareholding of Mudhra Labs on a fully diluted 
basis) was completed by 6th April 2024. Further, other than the rights available 
to it as an equity shareholder of Mudhra Labs and in terms of the CCPS, there 
were no other rights available to Mudhra Lifesciences with respect to Mudhra 
Labs.  
b. Investment by Mudhra Pharmacorp in equity shares of Mudhra Labs: It 
was stated that the entire investment that was proposed to be made by Mudhra 
Pharmacorp in Mudhra Labs by way of subscription to 25.44% equity 
shareholding of Mudhra Labs was completed by 6th April 2024. Further, other 
than the rights available to it as an equity shareholder of Mudhra Labs, there 
were no other rights available to Mudhra Pharmacorp with respect to Mudhra 
Labs.  
c. Investment by Mudhra Labs in equity shares of the Acquirer: Regarding 
investment by Mudhra Labs in equity shares of the Acquirer, it was submitted 
that on 1st March 2024 the consideration was paid for secondary purchase from 
original shareholders of the Acquirer and on 16th April 2024 the consideration 
was paid and allotment was completed on the same date. The percentage of 
equity shareholding held by Mudhra Labs in Acquirer was 100%. 
iii. 
Investment by Pranav in Mudra Lifesciences: It was stated that the investment 
by Pranav in Mudhra Lifesciences was made towards subscription of 54,79,99,999 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 22 
 
equity shares (out of which 1,00,09,999 equity shares were fully paid-up). Further, 
a portion of the investment by Mudhra Lifesciences in Mudhra Labs had been 
funded through debt, where Mudhra Lifesciences had borrowed by issuing unlisted, 
secured, redeemable, non-convertible debentures to institutional investors. 
However, this was a pure debt transaction and none of the institutional investors 
had any voting rights, control or any special rights over Mudhra Lifesciences. 
Regarding the pre and post shareholding in Mudhra Lifesciences, it was stated that 
while Pranav held 100% of the outstanding equity share capital and Kingsman only 
held CCPS, upon conversion of the CCPS Kingsman would receive equity shares 
amounting to 42.75% of the post-conversion equity share capital on a fully diluted 
basis, whereas Pranav’ equity shareholding would be diluted to 57.25%.  
iv. 
Capital Contribution in Mudhra Pharmacorp by the partners of Mudhra 
Pharmacorp: It was stated that the following partners of Mudhra Pharmacorp had 
contributed the capital: (i) Mr. Pranav Reddy, (ii) Govipri Infra LLP, and (iii) Ms. 
Sujatha Ravuri. It was submitted that notwithstanding the capital contribution ratio, 
the partners of Mudhra Pharmacorp had agreed that Pranav has the right to control 
and manage the affairs and assets/investments of Mudhra Pharmacorp and other 
than their respective partnership interest, neither Govipri Infra LLP nor Sujatha 
Ravuri enjoy any rights or control in Mudhra Pharmacorp.  
15. 
Pertinently, the Acquirer and the Investors had earlier submitted a notice in Form I 
(bearing Registration No. C- 2024/01/1100 (Original Notice)) seeking approval from 
the Commission for the Acquirer’s acquisition of the Target and investment by the 
Investors in the Acquirer to fund such acquisition. The Commission granted approval for 
this transaction by way of an order dated 13th February 2024. However, subsequent to 
the receipt of the said approval the structure of the transaction underwent a change.  
16. 
The Acquirer submitted that such change was pursuant to commercial discussions 
between the Acquirer and the Investors. It was submitted that further to the Acquirer’s 
efforts to secure funding for the acquisition, in particular, the Kingsman Funding and 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 22 
 
Acquirer Funding (as described above) became necessary to capitalise the Acquirer 
sufficiently to complete the Proposed Acquisition, whereas the subscription of OCDs by 
the Investors had to take place at the Mudhra Labs level rather than the Acquirer level 
(as was envisaged in the Original Notice) as per the requirements of the lenders to the 
Acquirer. 
B. 
ISSUE OF SHOW CAUSE NOTICE (SCN) 
17. 
The Commission considered the matter in its meeting held on 28th May 2024 and 
observed that subsequent to the approval by the Commission of the Original Notice, the 
structure of the transaction had undergone a considerable change.  
18. 
The Commission noted that pursuant to the change though the direct acquiring entity of 
the Target continued to be Matrix Pharma, the shareholding and control structure of 
Matrix Pharma had changed. As per the Original Notice, Matrix Pharma was directly 
owned and controlled by Pranav and his wife Mrs. Swati Reddy Gunupati, who 
collectively held 99.26% of the shareholding of the Acquirer. However, as per the instant 
Notice, Mrs. Swati Reddy Gunupati had ceased to hold any shareholding in Matrix 
Pharma and Pranav held only indirect shareholding. Direct 100% equity shareholding in 
Matrix Pharma was now held by Mudhra Labs, in which Mudhra Lifesciences held 
74.56% (on a fully diluted basis) and remaining was held by Mudhra Pharmacorp. In 
Mudhra Lifesciences, Pranav held 100% equity shareholding and Kingsman held CCPS 
(amounting to 42.75% of the post-conversion equity share capital on a fully diluted basis) 
and in Mudhra Pharmacorp, Govipri Infra LLP and Sujatha Ravuri were partners along 
with Pranav. It was noted that the change in structure of Transaction and Acquirer 
Funding had been carried out and completed without notifying to the Commission. 
19. 
Considering that the purpose of the Acquirer Funding was to ensure funding for the 
Acquirer to undertake the Proposed Acquisition, it was observed that the transactions 
forming part of the Acquirer Funding were interconnected to the Proposed Acquisition 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 22 
 
and hence to the Proposed Combination in terms of Regulation 9(4) and 9(5) of the 
Competition Commission of India (Procedure in regard to transaction of business 
relating to combinations) Regulations, 2011 (Combination Regulations). Likewise, 
Kingsman Funding, investment by Pranav in Mudhra Lifesciences and capital 
contribution in Mudhra Pharmacorp by the partners of Mudhra Pharmacorp i.e., (i) 
Pranav, (ii) Govipri Infra LLP and (iii) Ms. Sujatha Ravuri and Proposed 
KSSIF/KAAML Investment by the Investors were also interconnected with the Proposed 
Combination. Accordingly, a single notice covering all these interconnected transactions 
ought to have been given to the Commission prior to consummation. However, the 
Acquirers had failed to do so. 
20. 
Thus, considering the above, the Commission was of the prima facie opinion that there 
was a contravention of the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 6 and sub-section 
(2A) of Section 6 of the Act in the matter. Accordingly, the Commission decided to issue 
SCN to the Acquirers under Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the 
Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009. 
21. 
Accordingly, an Order dated 28th May 2024 (SCN Order) was passed by the 
Commission directing the Acquirers to show cause in writing within 15 days of receipt 
of the SCN Order as to why: (i) they should not be found in contravention of the 
provisions of the Act and (ii) no penalty in terms of Section 43A of the Act should be 
imposed upon them. The SCN Order was communicated to the Acquirers vide letter 
dated 12th July 2024 and the Acquirers submitted their response on 29th July 2024 (SCN 
Response). 
C. 
RESPONSE TO SCN  
22. 
It is stated in the SCN Response that the change in the structure of the transaction for the 
purposes of acquisition of the Target was not anticipated at the time of filing of the 
Original Notice. Besides, despite the inclusion of Acquirer Holding Entities which were 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 22 
 
not previously part of the Acquirer’s holding structure, the only material change in 
ownership is on account of the investment by Kingsman, being an unrelated third-party 
investor, as the other changes in the transaction structure as disclosed in the Notice did 
not lead to any change in the competitive assessment as undertaken by the Commission 
for the Original Notice. 
23. 
Though Swati was disclosed as a shareholder of the Acquirer in the Original Notice, she 
is no longer a shareholder either in the Acquirer or the Acquirer Holding Entities as 
disclosed in the Notice. However, this is not a material change as the investments by 
Swati have been considered for the purposes of the competitive assessment analysis in 
both the Original Notice and the instant Notice.  
24. 
Thus, notwithstanding the change in the transaction structure compared to the structure 
described in the Original Notice, there is no material change in the ultimate ownership 
of the Acquirer and there is a change only in the layers of ownership and the level at 
which the Investors would be making their investment, while the basic objective of the 
transaction i.e., acquisition of the Target, remains the same. 
(i) 
Submissions with respect to Acquirer Holding Entities: 
25. 
It is submitted that as originally envisaged and disclosed in the Original Notice, the 
Acquirer was wholly owned by Pranav and his wife Swati, and would receive investment 
from the Investors in order to fund the acquisition of the Target. However, as per the 
requirements of the lenders to the Acquirer, the Acquirer could not issue OCDs to the 
Investors and therefore, it became necessary to create an additional holding entity above 
the Acquirer that would issue such OCDs to the Investors i.e., Mudhra Labs. 
26. 
Further, in order to secure sufficient funding for the Proposed Acquisition, it became 
necessary to raise equity from alternate sources. Accordingly, a commercial decision was 
taken for Kingsman to invest in Mudhra Life sciences, which would become the holding 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 22 
 
company of Mudhra Labs. Pranav was also able to secure investments from certain 
family and friends i.e., Govipri Infra LLP (wholly owned by family members of Pranav) 
and Sujatha Ravuri in Mudhra Pharmacorp, which also became a minority shareholder 
in Mudhra Labs. 
27. 
However, notwithstanding the inclusion of additional persons not envisaged in the 
Original Notice approved by the Commission, the only material change in ownership 
was on account of the investment by Kingsman. This is on account of Pranav retaining 
the majority ownership and control over Mudhra Lifesciences (and thus indirectly over 
Mudhra Labs and the Acquirer). Even in Mudhra Pharmacorp, while Govipri Infra LLP 
and Sujatha Ravuri have their respective partnership interests, neither Govipri Infra LLP 
nor Sujatha Ravuri enjoy any rights or control in Mudhra Pharmacorp, and have 
specifically agreed in the Amended and Restated Limited Liability Partnership 
Agreement dated 5th April 2024 (LLP Agreement) that Pranav has the right to control 
and manage Mudhra Pharmacorp, its affairs and its assets /investments. 
28. 
Nevertheless, despite Govipri Infra LLP and Sujatha Ravuri not having any control or 
influence over the Acquirer or Target by virtue of their being partners in Mudhra 
Pharmacorp, an overlap assessment of their respective investments has been undertaken 
and it is confirmed that neither Govipri Infra LLP and Sujatha Ravuri have any portfolio 
investments that cross the Materiality Threshold, and therefore do not impact the 
competitive assessment of the Proposed Combination. 
(ii) 
Submissions with respect to Kingsman: 
29. 
The changes in the Acquirer structure did not lead to any material changes in the ultimate 
ownership and control over the Acquirer, which remained with Pranav, except on 
account of the investment by Kingsman, which is an unrelated third-party investor.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 12 of 22 
 
30. 
Therefore, after the Original Notice received approval from the Commission and the 
necessity for additional investment from Kingsman was identified, a notice in Form I 
was filed by Kingsman with the Commission prior to completion of the investment by 
Kingsman in Mudhra Lifesciences. This notice disclosed that the ultimate purpose of 
Kingsman’s investment was for the Acquirer’s acquisition of the Target, and was 
submitted under the green channel and hence deemed to be approved by the Commission 
upon submission. The investment by Kingsman was only completed after receipt of such 
deemed approval from the Commission. Further, given that Kingsman does not have any 
investments that overlap with the Target’s activities, even the introduction of Kingsman 
did not impact the overlap analysis set out in the Original Notice. 
(iii) 
Submissions with respect to Inter-connected Transactions: 
31. 
The Acquirer Funding and the Kingsman Funding were necessary for the Acquirer to 
complete its acquisition of the Target. However, the Acquirers have been fully 
transparent with the Commission as to the transactions being undertaken, including 
clarifying where certain steps had been carried out prior to filing of the Notice. 
32. 
It is submitted that certain steps were carried out prior to the filing of the Notice on 
account of the commercial imperatives to complete the acquisition of the Target as 
quickly as possible once the demerger of the API Business from Mylan India to the 
Target became effective from 1st March 2024. As communicated by Viatris Inc., Mylan 
India’s parent company, once the demerger became effective there came about an urgent 
necessity and exigency to ensure the prompt closure of the Transaction and for the 
Acquirer to take control over the business operations of the Target and to bring in the 
necessary efficiencies in the operations of the Target as well as fund the operations of 
the Target on a continual basis. Since the Target manufactures antiretroviral drugs which 
are extremely important in the global (and India’s) fight against AIDS, it became 
imperative that the Acquirer complete the acquisition of the Target at the earliest and 
take control over the API Business to ensure that the supply of such critical drugs is not 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 13 of 22 
 
disrupted given the impacted permits, licenses and stakeholder expectations on supply 
from the Acquirer.  
33. 
It was in the above context that the Acquirer Funding and Kingsman Funding were 
completed prior to the filing of the Notice in good faith and with the best of intentions, 
under the bona fide impression that the Proposed Acquisition and the investment by the 
Investors having already been notified to the Commission by way of the Original Notice, 
and approved unconditionally by way of an order dated 13th February 2024, the 
subsequent changes in the Acquirer’s structure were not material given that there was no 
material change in the ultimate ownership of the Acquirer. Furthermore, while the 
Kingsman Funding involved an unrelated third-party investor at the Mudhra Lifesciences 
level, the same was only completed after receiving the deemed approval of the 
Commission. 
(iv) 
Mitigating Circumstances  
34. 
It is submitted that while the Acquirer Funding and the Kingsman Funding were 
completed prior to the filing of the Notice, the following mitigating circumstances be 
considered: 
a. There has not been any intention on the part of the Notifying Parties to omit any 
material facts from the Commission, and the changes in the structure of the 
transaction have only arisen subsequent to receipt of approval for the Original 
Notice. Rather, the Acquirer Holding Entities and Kingsman had disclosed the status 
of the Acquirer Funding and the Kingsman Funding in the Notice, acting in good 
faith and in the interests of complete disclosure to the Commission.  
 
b. The Notifying Parties have sought to comply with the spirit of the Act by ensuring 
that notwithstanding the changes in the structure of the transaction as originally 
envisaged in the Original Notice, the person in ultimate control of the Acquirer i.e., 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 14 of 22 
 
Pranav, remained the same, and furthermore by assessing potential overlaps with the 
Target on account of investments of Kingsman, Govipri Infra LLP and Sujatha 
Ravuri. It may be noted that no additional potential overlaps have been identified in 
the Notice pursuant to the revised structure than what had been disclosed in the 
Original Notice and already approved by the Commission. 
 
c. The Acquirer Funding was completed prior to the filing of the Notice in good faith 
and with the best of intentions, under the bona fide impression that the Proposed 
Acquisition and the investment by the Investors having already been notified to the  
Commission by way of the Original Notice and approved unconditionally by way of 
an order dated 13th February 2024, the subsequent changes in the Acquirer’s 
structure were not material given that there was no material change in the ultimate 
ownership of the Acquirer.  
 
d. The completion of Acquirer Funding was also necessitated due to commercial 
considerations for the transactions, and potential impact for the Target’s business in 
the event that the time period between the demerger of the API Business into the 
Target and acquisition by the Acquirer became extended. 
 
e. Given that the revised structure saw the addition of Kingsman as an investor, a notice 
in Form I (bearing Registration No. C-2024/04/1130) was filed by Kingsman under 
the green channel, and only after receipt of deemed approval of the Commission for 
this filing was the Kingsman Funding completed. 
 
f. With respect to the Investors, no steps were taken towards consummating 
investments whether in the Acquirer or in Mudhra Labs, until the receipt of approval 
of the Commission pursuant to the Notice. Further, as clarified in the Notice, the 
Investors were not aware of, nor did they have any knowledge, visibility nor hold 
any responsibility with respect to, the completion of the Acquirer Funding and the 
Kingsman Funding. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 15 of 22 
 
 
g. The Notifying Parties have a track record of compliance with the provisions of the 
Act, as evidenced by the notifications by way of the Original Notice as well as with 
respect to the Kingsman Funding. Further, the Notifying Parties had pre-filing 
consultations to apprise the Commission of the changes in the transaction structure, 
thus demonstrating an intention to show full transparency before the Commission 
and to comply with the spirit of the Act. Further, this is the first instance of alleged 
violation of the provisions of the Act by the Notifying Parties, and that the Notifying 
Parties are not repeat offenders and that there has been no mala fide intention on the 
part of the Notifying Parties to evade compliance with the provisions of the Act, 
rather the Notifying Parties have proactively disclosed to the Commission all 
pertinent facts and circumstances. 
 
h. The ultimate objective of the transactions described in the Original Notice and the 
Notice remained the same i.e., acquisition of the Target by the Acquirer. Any steps 
undertaken in furtherance of the Acquirer Funding and the Kingsman Funding prior 
to filing of the Notice were only taken after receipt of approval from the Commission 
(a) unconditionally for the transactions described in the Notice; and (b) under the 
green channel for the Kingsman Funding. 
 
i. Accordingly, the Notifying Parties have sought to ensure at all times that 
notwithstanding the changes in the structure, the basis of the transaction that was 
initially approved unconditionally by the Commission pursuant to the Original 
Notice remained the same.  
 
(v) 
Prayer 
35. 
The Commission is requested, to take a lenient view considering the conduct of the 
Notifying Parties and in light of the circumstances of the transaction, prays that no 
penalty in terms of Section 43A of the Act be imposed upon any of the Notifying Parties. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 16 of 22 
 
Furthermore, if the Commission decides to impose a penalty in terms of Section 43A of 
the Act, it is prayed that in light of the conduct of the parties and other mitigating 
circumstances as described above, a minimal or nominal penalty be imposed.  
D. 
Observations of the Commission 
36. 
The Commission has considered the material on record and heard the arguments of the 
learned counsel in the matter on 7th January 2025. Given the submissions made in the 
Notice, the response to the SCN and arguments presented before the Commission, the 
observations of the Commission on the issue of contravention of the provisions of 
Section 43A read with Section 6(2) and Section 6(2A) of the Act in the instant matter 
are set forth in following paras. 
I. 
Investment by Pranav in Mudra Lifesciences/ capital contribution in Mudhra 
Pharmacorp by the partners of Mudhra Pharmacorp/ Acquirer Funding for 
the purposes of Proposed Acquisition 
37. 
Based on the submissions in the notice and response to SCN, it is apparent that 
subsequent to order of the Commission dated 13th February 2024 whereby the Proposed 
Combination notified vide Original Notice was approved, the structure of the transaction 
underwent change. The pre-filing consultations in relation to the changes in the 
transaction structure were sought only subsequent to completion of the Acquirer Funding 
and Kingsman Funding. Although the Acquirers filed a fresh notice on 23rd April 2024, 
certain steps had already been completed prior to the filing of the Notice. The learned 
counsel has not denied the same but has explained the circumstances and cited the 
commercial exigencies for consummation of such steps without filing notice with the 
Commission.  
38. 
During the hearing as well as in the response to the SCN, it is submitted that the 
subsequent changes in the transaction structure were not significant as there was no 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 17 of 22 
 
material change in the ultimate ownership of the Acquirer as Pranav continued to retain 
ownership in the Acquirer and the only change was the change in layers of ownership. 
Given the facts of the case, it is apparent that while Pranav has continued to have ultimate 
ownership interest in the Acquirer after the change in transaction structure, there are 
other entities such as Kingsman, Govipri Infra LLP and Sujatha Ravuri which have also 
acquired ultimate ownership interest therein, in place of Swati. As per the Original 
Notice, ownership interest in the Acquirer i.e., Matrix Pharma was held by only two 
individuals, namely, Pranav and Swathi; however,  as per the instant Notice, the Acquirer 
is directly held by Mudhra Labs, which in turn is held by Mudhra Lifesciences (where 
Pranav currently holds 100% and Kingsman holds CCPS) and Mudhra Pharmacorp 
(where Pranav is a partner alongwith Govipri Infra LLP and Sujatha Ravuri ). Materially, 
in terms of ownership interest in the Acquirer there are two significant changes, first, 
there are new entities that have acquired ownership interest in the Acquirer and second, 
Swathi has ceased to hold any ownership interest in the Acquirer. Considering that the 
entities holding ownership interest in the Acquirer are no longer the same as in the 
Original Notice, the Commission finds that the transaction structure has materially 
changed from what was approved by the Commission in Original Notice. 
39. 
Further, it is noted that though Pranav holds 100% shareholding in Mudhra Lifesciences, 
Kingsman also has an ownership interest therein along with Pranav. As stated earlier, 
upon conversion of CCPS, Kingsman would receive equity shares amounting to 42.75% 
of the post-conversion equity share capital on a fully diluted basis, whereas Pranav’s 
shareholding would be diluted to 57.25%. Likewise, in Mudhra Pharmacorp, while 
Govipri Infra LLP and Sujatha Ravuri have specifically agreed that Pranav has the right 
to control and manage the LLP, its affairs and its assets/investment; it cannot be said that 
Govipri Infra LLP and Sujatha Ravuri would not have any rights in Mudhra Pharmacorp.  
As partners who have contributed capital to Mudhra Pharmacorp, Govipri Infra LLP and 
Sujatha Ravuri have certain ownership interest. Further, they would also have certain 
information rights, such as, rights to access the books of account and records of the LLP, 
etc. as well as other rights and duties under the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 18 of 22 
 
and Rules made thereunder. Thus,  it cannot be said that the change in transaction 
structure is not material. In the instant Notice, in addition to Pranav, other entities, such 
as, Kingsman, Govipri Infra LLP and Sujatha Ravuri have also acquired ownership 
interest in the Acquirer through Mudra Lifesciences, Mudhra Pharmacorp and Mudhra 
Labs, for which the competition assessment was not provided in the Original Notice. 
40. 
Further, the learned counsel has argued before the Commission that no additional  
overlaps have been identified between the Parties pursuant to the revised structure. While 
this may be so,  it is also to be borne in mind that mere absence of overlaps does not 
obviate the fact that the transaction structure that was notified to the Commission in the 
Original Notice underwent a change subsequent to the approval.  The change in 
transaction structure ought to have been notified to the Commission as a proposed 
combination, instead at the time the Notice was given to the Combination, certain steps 
of the Combination had already been consummated.  
41. 
It is pertinent to note that the merger control regime in India is mandatory and suspensory 
in nature. This means that combinations are notifiable unless they can avail any 
exemptions and cannot be consummated, either entirely or in part, before an approval 
from the Commission has been obtained. Section 5 of the Competition Act provides the 
assets and turnover criteria for acquisitions of control, shares, voting rights or assets as 
well as mergers and amalgamations that amount to a combination. Section 6(2) of the 
Competition Act requires/ mandates parties to give notice in respect of their proposed 
combination. Section 6(2A) of the Act provides that a combination notified to the 
Commission shall not come into effect for a period of 210 days  from the date of 
notification or approval by the Commission, whichever is earlier. 
42. 
It is clear from the submissions in the Notice that the Combination was a notifiable 
transaction and was neither exempted by any Government of India notification nor 
covered under Schedule I of Combination Regulations. Thus, it was incumbent upon the 
Acquirers to be in conformity with all relevant provisions of the Act and applicable 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 19 of 22 
 
Regulations. However, there was a part-consummation of the combination as certain 
steps interconnected with the Combination i.e., Acquirer Funding, investment by Pranav 
in Mudra Lifesciences and capital contribution in Mudhra Pharmacorp by the partners of 
Mudhra Pharmacorp, were consummated prior to filing notice with the Commission.   
43. 
It is also pertinent to mention here that the mandatory regime for notifying a proposed 
combination to the Commission is applicable, irrespective of whether the combination 
causes appreciable adverse effect on competition in India or not. The Commission, in its 
order relating to penalty proceedings under Section 43A of the Act against Intellect 
Design Arena Limited, has already observed: “…. the Act clearly provides, irrespective 
of whether there is any appreciable adverse effect on competition in India or not, there 
is mandatory regime for notifying a combination to the Commission.” 
II. 
Kingsman Funding 
44. 
With respect to the Kingsman Funding, which involved a third-party investor at the 
Mudhra Lifesciences level, the Parties have submitted that the same was notified vide 
Green Channel Notice by Kingsman and deemed to be approved by the Commission by 
way of acknowledgment issued on 4th April 2024. After the green channel approval, the 
Kingsman Funding was completed on 5th April 2024.  
45. 
It appears from the submissions in the Notice that the Acquirers were aware that the 
Kingsman Funding was inter-connected to the Combination. In such a case, in 
accordance with the provisions of Regulation 9(4) of the Combination Regulations, a  
single notice covering all transactions including Acquirer Funding, investment by Pranav 
in Mudra Lifesciences and capital contribution in Mudhra Pharmacorp by the partners of 
Mudhra Pharmacorp, which were in contemplation at the same time as Kingsman 
Funding, ought to have been filed with the Commission.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 20 of 22 
 
46. 
However, in light of the facts and circumstances of the case and keeping in view of the 
fact that a Green Channel Notice was filed with the Commission by Kingsman with 
respect to the Kingsman Funding and the same was consummated only after the deemed 
approval of the Commission, the Commission does not find Kingsman Funding to be in 
contravention of any of the provisions of the Act. 
III. 
Proposed KSSIF/KAAML Investment  
47. 
Regarding the Proposed KSSSIF/KAAML Investment by the Investors proposed to be 
made in Matrix Pharma in Original Notice and in Mudhra Labs in the instant Notice,  it 
is noted that no steps were taken towards consummating the investment and the same was 
yet to be completed subject to the approval of the Commission. The Investors have 
submitted in the notice as well as response to SCN that they were not aware of, nor did 
they have any knowledge, visibility with respect to, the completion of the Acquirer 
Funding and the Kingsman Funding. Therefore, the Commission finds that the Investors 
are not in violation of the provisions of the Act. 
IV. 
Contravention and Penalty 
48. 
In view of the foregoing, the Commission is of the opinion that there is contravention of 
the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 6 and sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of the 
Act as a result of the part-consummation of the combination prior to filing Notice with 
the Commission. 
49. 
It is to be noted that failure to give notice in accordance with sub-section (2) of Section 
6 of the Act attracts penalty under Section 43A of the Act. Section 43A of the Act states:  
“Power to impose penalty for non-furnishing of information on combinations 
43A. If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission under 
sub- section (2) of section 6, the Commission shall impose on such person or 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 21 of 22 
 
enterprise a penalty which may extend to one percent, of the total turnover or 
the assets, whichever is higher, of such a combination.” 
50. 
The Hon’ble Supreme Court in ‘Competition Commission of India v Thomas Cook 
(India) Ltd. & Anr.’
1 has held that: “For   the   imposition   of 
penalty under section 43A, the action may not be mala fide in case there is a breach of 
the statutory provisions of the civil law, penalty is attracted simpliciter on its violation.” 
In terms of Section 43A of the Competition Act, a maximum penalty of one per cent of 
the combined value of turnover of the Parties in India can be imposed.  
51. 
It is to be noted that Section 43A of the Act prescribes the maximum extent of penalty 
that can be levied for failure to file notice; however, the Commission can consider the 
conduct of the parties and circumstances of the case to arrive at an appropriate amount 
of penalty. 
52. 
In the instant matter, the part-consummation of the Combination without filing a notice 
contravened the provisions of Section 43A read with Section 6(2) and Section 6(2A) of 
the Act and Combination Regulations. Therefore, the contravening parties cannot be 
exculpated of their statutory obligation thereunder. However, the Commission has 
considered the mitigating factors mentioned in para 34 above and the conduct of the 
parties whereby they disclosed the change in transaction structure voluntarily and 
extended cooperation and provided the material/documents as sought by the 
Commission.  
53. Thus, considering the facts and circumstances of the case and the conduct of the parties 
in the matter, the Commission decides to take a lenient view and impose a nominal 
penalty of INR 5,00,000 (INR Five Lakh only) in the matter. The penalty shall be paid 
within 60 days from the date of receipt of this order. 
                                                          
1 Civil Appeal No.13578 OF 2015 (17 April 2018) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 22 of 22 
 
54. 
It is made clear that nothing used in this order shall be deemed to be confidential or 
deemed to have been granted confidentiality, as the same has been used for the purposes 
of the Act in terms of the provisions contained in Section 57 thereof. 
55. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Acquirers, accordingly. 
