 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
                                                               Page 1 of 7 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2014/03/162) 
 
27.05.2014 
 
 
Order u/s 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 in the notice given u/s 6(2) by Tesco 
Overseas Investments Limited. 
 
1. 
On 31st March 2014, the Competition Commission of India (hereinafter referred to as 
the “Commission”) received a notice relating to the proposed acquisition of fifty 
percent of the issued and paid-up equity share capital of Trent Hypermarket Limited 
(hereinafter referred to as “THL”) by Tesco Overseas Investments Limited (hereinafter 
after referred to as “TOIL” or “Acquirer”). The notice was given by TOIL, pursuant 
to the execution of  Joint Venture Agreement and  Share Purchase Agreement between 
TOIL, THL and Trent Limited (hereinafter referred to as “Trent”), on 21st March 
2014.  
 
2. 
As per the information provided in the notice, the Acquirer vide its application dated 
17th December 2013 (hereinafter after referred to as “Application”) had sought the 
approval of the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, Ministry of Commerce 
& Industry (“DIPP”) and Foreign Investment and Promotion Board, Ministry of 
Finance (“FIPB”) for the acquisition of fifty percent of the issued and paid-up equity 
share capital of THL.  
 
3. 
In terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, any person or enterprise, who or 
which proposes to enter into a combination, shall give notice to the Commission, 
disclosing the details of the proposed combination, within thirty days of execution of 
any agreement or other document for acquisition referred to in clause (a) of Section 5 
or acquiring of control referred to in clause (b) of that section. The sub-regulation (8) 
of Regulation 5 of the Competition Commission of India (Procedure in regard to the 
transaction of business relating to combinations) Regulations, 2011 (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Combination Regulations”) explains the nature of documents that 
would qualify as other document. The text of sub-regulation (8) of Regulation 5 of the 
Combination Regulation is reproduced below: 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C- 2014/03/162                                                                                                                           Page 2 of 7 
 
“ The reference to the ‘other document’ in clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 
6 of the Act shall mean any binding document, by whatever name called, 
conveying an agreement or decision to acquire control, shares, voting rights or 
assets: 
 
Provided that if the acquisition is without the consent of the enterprise being 
acquired, any document executed by the acquiring enterprise, by whatever name 
called, conveying a decision to acquire control, shares or voting rights shall be 
the ‘other document’: 
 
Provided further that where such a document has not been executed but the 
intention to acquire is communicated to the Central Government or State 
Government or a Statutory Authority, the date of such communication shall be 
deemed to be the date of execution of the other document for acquisition.” 
 
4. 
Thus, in terms of above provisions, the Acquirer was required to give notice to the 
Commission within thirty days of its application to the DIPP and the FIPB i.e., by 16th 
January 2014. However, the notice was given by the Acquirer on 31st March 2014, 
with a delay of around 73 days.  
 
5. 
In terms of Regulation 14 of the Combinations Regulations, vide letter dated 4th April 
2014, the Acquirer was therefore, required to clarify as to why the notice was not filed 
within the time prescribed under sub-section (2) of Section 6  of the Act. The Acquirer 
filed its response on 9th April 2014.  
 
6. 
The Commission, in its meeting held on 17th April 2014, considered the response filed 
by the Acquirer as above and inter-alia decided to admit the belated notice in terms of 
Regulation 7 of the Combination Regulations, without prejudice to the penal action 
that may be initiated separately under Section 43A of the Act. In the said meeting, the 
Commission also decided to initiate separate proceedings under Regulation 48 of the 
Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009 (hereinafter referred to 
as the “General Regulations”), regarding imposition of penalty under Section 43A of 
the Act, as the abovesaid notice was not given within the time prescribed under sub-
section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C- 2014/03/162                                                                                                                           Page 3 of 7 
 
7. 
Accordingly, in terms of Regulation 48 of the General Regulations read with Section 
43A of the Act, a show cause notice dated 22nd April 2014 was sent to the Acquirer to 
show cause, in writing, within 15 days of the receipt of notice as to why penalty, in 
terms of Section 43A of the Act should not be imposed on it for not having filed the 
notice within the time prescribed under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. The 
Acquirer filed its response to the show cause notice, in the form of written 
submissions, on 6th May 2014. In the said response, the authorised representative of the 
Acquirer has, inter-alia, raised the following points: 
 
(a) 
It was the bona fide assessment of the parties that the requirement for 
notification had not been triggered under the Act at the time of submitting the 
proposal to the DIPP and the FIPB, as TOIL had not communicated its intention 
to acquire shares of THL under the proposal. The Acquirer further stated that, 
“…the requirement for a notice of an acquisition could be triggered pursuant to 
the second proviso of regulation 5(8), only if communication to the Central 
Government, State Government or a Statutory Authority, conveys an intention or 
decision to acquire control, shares, voting rights or assets. In the present case, no 
intention or decision to acquire was formed by TOIL at the time of making the 
Application to the DIPP and the Application could not be considered as 
communication of TOIL’s intention or decision to acquire shares of THL. The 
respective boards of the parties had only provided their in-principle approval to 
the proposal and authorised filing of the Application. The board of directors of 
Trent and THL authorised the execution of the definitive agreements on 21st 
March 2014.” 
 
(b) 
Had the Acquirer applied to the Commission for its approval within 30 days of 
the Application, at such a preliminary stage, full details of the proposed 
combination would not have been available and the notice would have been 
incomplete and without relevant and detailed information, necessary for a review 
by the Commission. 
 
(c) 
The Acquirer has referred to the Commission’s order in combination case no. C-
2012/07/69, wherein, it was held by the Commission that the notification was 
premature as the combination proposal was yet to be accepted by the board of 
directors of the parties to the combination and the discussions with respect to 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C- 2014/03/162                                                                                                                           Page 4 of 7 
 
terms of the combination were still underway being subject to definitive 
agreements. Hence, the preliminary document executed by the parties was an 
interim arrangement and had not triggered the requirement to file notice under 
sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Act. Therefore, the notice given by the parties 
was held not to be a valid notice in terms of regulation 14 read with regulation 5 
of the Combination Regulations. The Acquirer has further submitted that in the 
instant case, the intent to enter into the combination was only given by TOIL’s 
board on 17th March 2014 and the definitive agreements were not agreed by the 
parties until 21st March 2014. Therefore, based on the Commission’s decision in 
the combination case no. C-2012/07/69, the arrangement between the parties to 
submit a proposal to the FIPB and DIPP was only an interim arrangement and a 
step towards negotiation, and therefore, any notification prior to the foregoing 
dates would have been premature. Further, referring to the combination case no. 
C-2013/01/108, the Acquirer has stated that in the said notice regarding the 
proposed combination was given to the Commission within 30 days of their 
application to the relevant statutory body, i.e., Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority (“IRDA”), as in the said case, the parties had finalised 
the terms of definitive agreements, drafts of which had been initialled and 
submitted to the Commission along with the notification. The Acquirer claims 
that the facts and circumstances of the instant case case are different from the 
abovesaid case, as the commercial details of the proposed transaction were 
finalised only after the receipt of approval from the DIPP. 
 
(d) 
The Acquirer has not intentionally failed to notify the Commission and on the 
contrary, has voluntarily submitted the notice shortly after the definitive 
documents were executed. 
 
8. 
On the request of the Acquirer, the Commission also heard the authorised 
representatives of the Acquirer in its meeting held on 27th May 2014.  
 
9. 
The submissions of the Acquirer, both written and oral, were duly considered by the 
Commission and it was held as under:  
 
(a) As regards the contention of the Acquirer that its Application to the DIPP and 
FIPB did not communicate the intention to acquire shares of THL, it is observed 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C- 2014/03/162                                                                                                                           Page 5 of 7 
 
that in its application, the Acquirer had sought the approval of the DIPP and 
FIPB for the proposal to acquire fifty percent of the issued and paid up equity 
share capital of THL and that the said application inter-alia mentioned that the 
proposed investment by the TOIL will include subscription of equity shares of 
THL and acquisition of existing equity shares of THL from Trent. The resolution 
dated 3rd December 2013, passed by the board of directors of TOIL, states that 
TOIL was in discussion to subscribe and acquire equity shares from Trent, to the 
extent of fifty per cent of the share capital of THL for the purpose of undertaking 
multi-brand retail trading business in India though THL. The board of directors 
of THL, in its meeting held on 17th December 2013, resolved that, “subject to the 
approval of the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (“FIPB”) and the 
Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (“DIPP”) and in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and/or the Companies Act, 2013, 
the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, the Foreign Exchange 
Management (Transfer or issue of Securities by a Person Resident Outside 
India) Regulations, 2000, including any amendment, modification, variation or 
re-enactment thereof, and the provisions of any rules/regulations/guidelines 
issued/framed by the Central Government, Reserve Bank of India, and any other 
appropriate authorities (hereinafter referred to as “the Appropriate 
Authorities”), enabling provisions of the Memorandum and Articles of 
Association of the Company and execution of the definitive agreements, the 
consent, authority and approval of the Board of Directors be and is hereby 
accorded to the proposal of Tesco Overseas Investments Limited (“TOIL’) to 
acquire 50 per cent of the issued and paid up equity share capital of the 
Company (currently a wholly owned subsidiary of the Trent Limited) through 
purchase/subscription for the purpose of undertaking multi-brand retail trading 
business in India through the Company (“Proposal”).”  
 
In view of the foregoing, the claim of the Acquirer that no intention or decision 
to acquire was formed by TOIL at the time of making the application to the 
DIPP and FIPB is not correct.  
 
 
(b) The Acquirer’s claim that had the notice been filed with the Commission without 
executing the definitive agreement (s), it would have been incomplete as being 
without the relevant documents/details, is also misconceived as the Acquirer in 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C- 2014/03/162                                                                                                                           Page 6 of 7 
 
its application to the DIPP/FIPB on 17th December 2013 had provided enough 
details of the proposed combination which demonstrate that the parties were 
aware about the type, nature and purpose of the proposed combination at the 
time of making the said application. 
 
(c) As regards the two combination cases referred to by the Acquirer in its response, 
it is observed that the decision of the Commission in the combination case no. C-
2012/07/69 involved a scheme of merger/demerger and did not involve approval 
of the Central Government or State Government or any Statutory Authority. The 
parties in that case were required to give notice to the Commission within thirty 
days of approval of the proposal relating to merger or amalgamation by their 
board of directors. Citing reference to the Commission’s decision in the 
combination case no. C-2013/01/108, the Acquirer has stated that the notice in 
the said case was given to the Commission within 30 days of the application to 
the IRDA, as the parties had finalised the terms of the definitive agreements. 
However, in the instant case, the commercial details of the proposed transaction 
were finalised only after the receipt of approval from the DIPP. In this regard, it 
is observed that, in case no. C-2013/01/108, the Commission clearly held that in 
terms of sub-regulation (8) of Regulation 5 of the Combination Regulations, the 
date of filing of application with the IRDA for approval of the combination 
would be the trigging date for giving notice under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of 
the Act. Therefore, the contention of the Acquirer that it has rightfully filed the 
notice within 30 days of entering into the definitive agreement(s) on 21st March 
2014 is misconceived and cannot be accepted. 
 
 
10. Thus, in terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act and sub-regulation (8) of 
Regulation 5 of the Combination Regulations, the Acquirer ought to have filed notice 
with the Commission within thirty days of its application to the DIPP and the FIPB.  
However, the notice was given by the Acquirer on 31st March 2014, with a delay of 
around 73 days. 
  
11. In terms of Section 43A of the Act, if any person or enterprise fails to give notice 
under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, the Commission shall impose on such 
person or enterprise a penalty which may extend to one per cent of the total turnover or 
the assets, whichever is higher, of such a combination. Therefore, under the provisions 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C- 2014/03/162                                                                                                                           Page 7 of 7 
 
of the Act, the maximum penalty that may be imposed could be one percent of the total 
turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, of such a combination, which in the instant 
case is more than INR 600 crores. However, considering the fact that the Acquirer, 
notwithstanding the delay of around 73 days in giving notice, had voluntarily filed the 
notice within 30 days of executing the Joint Venture Agreement and Share Purchase 
Agreement, the Commission considered it appropriate to impose a nominal penalty of 
INR 3,00,00,000/- (INR Three Crores only) on the Acquirer. The Acquirer shall pay 
the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of this order. 
 
12. The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Acquirer accordingly. 
 
 
 
 (Ashok Chawla) 
Chairperson 
 
  
 
(Anurag Goel) 
Member 
 
 
 
(S.L. Bunker) 
Member 
 
 
 
(Sudhir Mital) 
Member 
 
 
 
(Augustine Peter) 
Member 
