 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 1 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
12.03.2018 
 
Notice given under Section 6(2) of the Competition Act, 2002 by  
UltraTech Cement Limited: Combination Regn. No. C-2015/02/246 
 
CORAM: 
Mr. Devender Kumar Sikri 
Chairperson 
 
Mr. Sudhir Mital 
Member 
 
Mr. Augustine Peter 
Member 
 
Mr. U. C. Nahta 
Member 
 
Mr. G. P. Mittal 
Member 
 
Appearances during Oral hearing on 03.10.2017 for UltraTech Cement Limited: 
Mr. Somasekhar Sundaresan, Advocate, Ms Nisha Kaur Uberoi, Advocate, Ms Soumya 
Hariharan, Advocate, Mr Saksham Dhingra, Advocate, Ms Nandini Pahari, Advocate, Mr. 
Puneet Bansal, General Counsel, UltraTech, Mr. Paresh Thakker, General Counsel, UltraTech 
 
Order under Section 44 of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
A. 
Background 
 
1. 
On 17.02.2015, the Competition Commission of India (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Commission”) received a notice (“Notice”), under Section 6(2) of the Competition Act, 
2002 (“Act”), filed by UltraTech Cement Limited (“UltraTech”/ “Acquirer”). The notice 
of combination was given pursuant to execution of an Implementation Agreement between 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 2 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
UltraTech and Jaiprakash Associates Limited (“JAL”/ “Seller”) on 23.01.2015 (“IA”) 
(hereinafter UltraTech and JAL are collectively referred to as the “Parties”). The 
combination related to transfer of business, assets and operations of two cement plants 
owned by JAL (including captive power plants) located at Bela and Sidhi in Madhya Pradesh 
(“Target Assets”) to UltraTech on a going concern and slump exchange basis, through a 
scheme of arrangement under Section 391 to Section 394 of the erstwhile Companies Act, 
1956 (“Combination”). On 10.04.2015, the Commission approved the Combination by 
passing an order under Section 31(1) of the Act (“Order”), without prejudice to proceedings 
under Section 43A of the Act. 
 
2. 
During the review of the Combination, the Commission noted that the Acquirer had provided 
a corporate guarantee to Axis Bank Limited (“Axis Bank”) in favour of JAL on the basis of 
which Axis Bank had advanced a loan of INR 500 Crores to JAL. Accordingly, a show cause 
notice under Section 43A of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission 
of India (General) Regulations, 2009 (“General Regulations”) was issued to the Acquirer 
on 23.04.2015. The SCN required the Acquirer to show cause, in writing, within 15 days of 
receipt of the same, as to why penalty, in terms of Section 43A of the Act, should not be 
imposed on it for failure to file notice of the Combination in accordance with Section 6(2) 
of the Act. The Acquirer filed its reply to the SCN on 22.05.2015 (“Response to S. 43A 
SCN”) along with a request for oral hearing, in terms of Regulation 48 of the General 
Regulations. 
 
B. 
Initiation of proceedings under Section 44 of the Act 
 
3. 
While reviewing the Response to S. 43A SCN, the Commission observed that the companies 
owned/controlled, directly or indirectly, by Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla and his family 
members (“KM Family”) own substantial shareholding in Century Textiles and Industries 
(“Century”) and Kesoram Industries (“Kesoram”), both of which are engaged in the 
production and sale of cement in India. The Commission also observed that certain news 
reports highlighted that though Mr. B. K. Birla is the chairman of Century, it is Mr. Kumar 
Mangalam Birla, who has chaired the board meetings of Century for the last few years. The 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 3 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Commission further observed that Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla is a Director of both 
UltraTech and Century and Ms Rajashree Birla (mother of Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla) is a 
Director of UltraTech and Additional Director of Century.  
 
4. 
The Commission noted that while filing the Notice, UltraTech had reported that it is a 
subsidiary of Grasim Industries Limited (“Grasim”) which in turn is a flagship company of 
Aditya Birla Group. Accordingly, in response to question 8.5 of Form II, which seeks 
information regarding the group to which the target entity/assets would belong after the 
combination, it was stated that the group, for the purposes of the Act would comprise of 
Grasim and all enterprises controlled by it. Accordingly, in response to question 9.1 of Form 
II, which seeks a list of all the enterprises belonging to the same group as each of the parties 
to the combination and a list of all the enterprise(s) controlling the parties to the combination, 
directly or indirectly, along with the nature and means of control, a list of all enterprises 
belonging to Grasim was provided. 
 
5. 
The Commission observed that UltraTech did not provide any details in respect of 
shareholding/control of KM Family and the companies owned/controlled by it in Century 
and Kesoram. The Commission noted that the said information was material as Century was 
active in the relevant market considered for assessment of the Combination and therefore it 
appeared that UltraTech had omitted to provide material information relating to 
shareholding/control of KM Family and the companies owned controlled by it in Century 
and Kesoram. The Commission further noted that the Acquirer had indicated Century as its 
competitor, which appeared to be factually incorrect.  
 
6. 
Accordingly, a show cause notice was issued to UltraTech on 08.01.2016 under Section 44 
of the Act read with Regulation 48 of the General Regulations (“S. 44 SCN”) for failing to 
provide information regarding shareholding/control of KM Family and companies 
owned/controlled by it in Century and Kesoram and making a factually incorrect submission 
indicating Century as UltraTech’s competitor. The Acquirer filed its reply to the S. 44 SCN 
on 26.02.2016, after seeking extension of time. The Acquirer made certain additional 
submissions in this regard on 01.07.2016 and 26.07.2016 during the review of another 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 4 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
transaction involving the Parties which was assigned Combination Regn. No. C-
2016/04/394. 
 
7. 
On 17.08.2016, UltraTech made an application for inspection of documents/records relating 
to the proceedings. The Commission granted the inspection request and the same was 
conducted on 27.09.2016. After the inspection, UltraTech submitted a fresh response on 
26.10.2016 superseding its earlier response and requested the Commission to refer to the 
same as comprehensive and complete response to S. 44 SCN along with a request for oral 
hearing (“Response to S. 44 SCN”). 
 
8. 
In its meeting held on 25.08.2017, the Commission considered the Response to S. 44 SCN 
and decided to grant an oral hearing to the Acquirer. Accordingly, the Acquirer presented its 
case before the Commission on 03.10.2017 and also made written submissions on the same 
date.  
 
C. 
Submissions of the Acquirer 
 
9. 
In the Response to S. 44 SCN and during oral submissions, UltraTech contended the 
following: 
 
Proceedings should abate as the transaction has been abandoned 
 
9.1. 
That due to legal impediments arising out of amendments in the provisions of Mines 
and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1947, the Combination has been 
abandoned. This was intimated to the Commission on 29.02.2016. Accordingly, any 
proceedings arising from the transactions in respect of which approval was obtained 
should abate after the transaction stands abandoned. 
 
 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 5 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Neither Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla nor his family members directly or indirectly 
control Century and Kesoram 
 
9.2. 
That as per the definition contained in explanation (b) to Section 5 of the Act, ‘group’ 
means, 
 
“ two or more enterprises which, directly or indirectly, are in a position to —  
(i) exercise twenty-six per cent1 or more of the voting rights in the other enterprise; or  
(ii) appoint more than fifty per cent of the members of the board of directors in the other 
enterprise; or  
(iii) control the management or affairs of the other enterprise.”. 
 
9.3. 
The Commission has considered KM Family to constitute a ‘group’ while the definition 
of ‘group’ under the Act does not bring within its ambit members of a ‘family’ and the 
term ‘family’ is not defined in the Act. S. 44 SCN has attempted to go beyond the Act, 
which does not contemplate that control should be inferred from involvement, however, 
token or miniscule, of a ‘family’. Notwithstanding the aforesaid, UltraTech is submitting 
Response to S. 44 SCN by including shareholdings of KM Family, which is defined to 
include Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla (Self), Ms. Rajashree Birla (Mother), Ms. Neerja 
Birla (Wife), Ms. Ananyashree Birla (Daughter), Mr. Aryaman Vikram Birla (Son) and 
Ms. Advaitesha Birla (Daughter). 
  
9.4. 
KM Family and the entities owned/controlled by it do not hold more than 50 percent 
shareholding in either Century or Kesoram. KM Family and the entities 
owned/controlled by it hold, directly or indirectly, shares to the extent of […] percent at 
best and […] percent at worst in Century and […] percent at best and […] percent at 
worst in Kesoram. The ‘at worst’ estimates of shareholding have been computed 
considering indirect beneficial interest and ‘at best’ estimate of shareholding is 
computed by reckoning the extent of indirect control over voting rights which would 
                                                          
1 Increased to fifty percent by GOI notification   

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 6 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
lead to control. Based on the aforesaid, regardless of the approach followed, the first 
limb of the definition of ‘group’ is not satisfied.  
 
9.5. 
As regards the ability to appoint more than fifty percent of the Board of Directors, at the 
time of filing of the Notice, Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla was the only common director 
on the Board of UltraTech and Century (out of a Board of 14 and 8 directors 
respectively). Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla neither had a casting vote as on the date of 
filing the Notice nor has a casting vote as on date. Ms Rajashree Birla was appointed as 
a Director on the Board of Century on 05.05.2015 (i.e. subsequent to the date of the 
Order). Further, Mr.Kumar Mangalam Birla and Ms Rajashree Birla together are but 
two Directors out of total strength of eight Board seats of Century and do not constitute 
majority. As regards chairing of meetings, Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla has chaired only 
4 out of a total of 20 Board meetings of Century held from FY 2012-13 till date. His 
role is limited to participating in the meetings for broad and high level discussion on 
policy issues. Also, being the Chairman in a Board Meeting does not confer upon the 
Chairman any additional powers or special rights to indicate that such person controls 
the affairs and management of a company – it is primarily a position occupied to ensure 
the conduct of the meeting smoothly and maintain the decorum and discipline at the 
meeting. In relation to Kesoram, UltraTech clarified that no member of KM Family is a 
Director on the Board of Kesoram. Based on the aforesaid, the second limb of the 
definition of ‘group’ in terms of ability to control majority of composition of Board of 
Directors is also not satisfied. 
 
9.6. 
As regards the third limb of the definition of ‘group’ given in the Act in terms of ability 
to control the management or affairs, KM Family does not have any special rights or 
veto rights in relation to Century or Kesoram which can be viewed as ‘control’ for the 
purposes of the Act. 
 
9.7. 
The Acquirer also made a reference to another case involving KM Family, i.e., the 
ABCIL-Grasim Combination Case C-2015/03/256 in which the notice was filed by 
Grasim and Aditya Birla Chemicals (India) Limited (“ABCIL”). In the said case, the 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 7 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
parties had submitted that both Grasim and ABCIL belong to Aditya Birla Group. In 
this regard, it has been submitted that the Commission had considered Grasim and 
ABCIL to be part of the same group, inter-alia, based on factors such as (i) decisive 
influence exercised by Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla, his family and the entities 
owned/controlled by them over both Grasim and ABCIL; (ii) common management 
level employees; (iii) common procurement, marketing and logistics teams; (iv) 
common logo etc. In context of the comparison of ABCIL-Grasim Combination Case 
with the instant case, UltraTech submitted that KM Family and entities 
owned/controlled by it do not fulfil the criteria in relation to Century and Kesoram.  
 
UltraTech provided all information required to be disclosed 
 
9.8. 
That in light of the issues contained in S. 44 SCN, relevant questions pertaining to 
disclosure of shareholding and control are questions 9.1 to 9.3 of Form II, the 
requirements of which are as under: 
 
i. 
Question 9.1 of Form II - A list of all the enterprises belonging to the same group 
for each of the parties to the combination, and list all the enterprise(s) 
controlling the parties to the combination, directly or indirectly, along with the 
nature and means of control;  
 
ii. 
Question 9.2 of Form II - Whether the parties to the combination, either singly 
or jointly, directly or indirectly, control the affairs or management of another 
entity or group? If yes, please furnish the following:  
 
A. details of enterprise(s) exercising control and enterprise(s) whose affairs are 
being controlled;  
 
B. form and manner in which the control is exercised; and  
 
C. details of common directors/ partners/ coparcenors/ trustees; and  

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 8 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
iii. 
Question 9.3 of Form II - Whether the parties to the combination and another 
enterprise or group referred to at 9.1 and 9.2 above, are engaged in production, 
distribution or trading of similar or identical or substitutable products or 
provision of similar/identical/substitutable services. If yes, provide following 
details:  
 
A. Names of similar or identical or substitutable products or services; and  
 
B. Market share of each of the products or services mentioned in (a) above, prior 
to and after the combination.  
 
9.9. 
Question 9.1 of Form II categorically requires information pertaining to a list of 
enterprises which belong to the same ‘group’ as that of the parties. UltraTech belongs 
to Grasim as Grasim is a listed entity with a dispersed shareholding (and Grasim’s 
promoter group itself holding only 25.51 percent in Grasim as on the date of filing of 
the Notice). No further enterprise above Grasim can be classified as constituting a 
‘group’ for the purpose of Section 5 of the Act and Question 9.1 of Form II. Accordingly, 
UltraTech furnished all the information in response to Question 9.1 of Form II with 
regard to Grasim. 
 
9.10. In relation to Questions 9.2 and 9.3 of Form II, as the information is required only in 
relation to the parties to the combination, information has been limited to Grasim, 
UltraTech and JAL and the entities controlled by Grasim, UltraTech and JAL. 
 
9.11. It has also been submitted that UltraTech would have been more than willing to fully 
furnish details regarding minority non-controlling shareholdings of KM Family or any 
other shareholder in the event the Commission had indicated that it required more 
information for assessment. Further, details of Grasim’s shareholding, including its 
promoters and promoter group is available in the public domain (given that shares of 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 9 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Grasim are listed on BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited) and 
the same have also been submitted to the Commission as part of the Notice. 
 
9.12. Based on the above mentioned submissions, UltraTech has stated that it has made full 
and complete disclosures in conformity with the letter and spirit of the law and has not 
omitted to provide any information, material or otherwise, in relation to any of the 
questions in Form II template or sought by way of the request for information letters.  
 
News reports cannot be the basis for adverse findings 
 
9.13. That news reports relating to ‘Century cementing ties with UltraTech’ have been denied 
by UltraTech and Century by way of letters to the stock exchanges. Also, newspaper 
reports cannot be considered as evidence. In light of the above, newspaper reports relied 
upon by the Commission cannot be the basis for arriving at adverse findings against 
UltraTech. 
 
Non provision of internal documents for inspection  
 
9.14. That S. 44 SCN indicated that Century is active in the State where the Target Assets are 
located and held around […] percent share in terms of installed capacity in the relevant 
market delineated during the assessment of the Combination. UltraTech has submitted 
that the internal assessment of the Commission was not made available to it for 
inspection and the same needs to be provided to enable it to establish a full and fair 
defence and in accordance with the principles of natural justice. 
 
9.15. Hence, UltraTech has not contravened any provisions of the Act. Without prejudice to 
the above, Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla is willing to volunteer to the Commission that 
he would be happy to resign immediately from the Board of Century in order to avoid 
the above concerns of the Commission.  
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 10 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
D. 
Analysis and Findings of the Commission 
 
10. 
The subject matter of S. 44 SCN is that KM Family and the entities owned/controlled by it 
have shareholding/control in UltraTech as well as in Century and Kesoram which are also 
engaged in the same product space as UltraTech and the said details were omitted to be 
provided in the Notice by the Acquirer and instead Century was indicated as a competitor of 
UltraTech. 
 
11. 
At the outset, it would be appropriate to highlight the significance of shareholding in 
competitors from competition perspective. It may be noted that there is a strong rationale for 
considering the shareholding in competitors in competition assessment, whether controlling 
or non-controlling. The are two prominent theories of harm as identified in the EC White 
Paper towards effective merger control which may result from the acquisition of non-
controlling minority shareholding.  
 
(a) 
Non-coordinated anti-competitive effects: “Acquiring a minority shareholding 
in a competitor may lead to non-coordinated anticompetitive effects because such a 
shareholding may increase the acquirer's incentive and ability to unilaterally raise prices 
or restrict output. If a firm has a financial interest in its competitor's profits, it may decide 
to 'internalise' the increase in those profits, resulting from a reduction in its own output 
or an increase in its own prices.” (at paragraph 29); and 
 
(b) 
Horizontal coordinated anti-competitive effects: “Minority shareholdings in 
competitors may also lead to coordinated anti-competitive effects by impacting a market 
participant’s ability and incentive to tacitly or explicitly coordinate in order to achieve 
supra-competitive profits. The acquisition of a minority shareholding may enhance 
transparency due to the privileged view it offers the acquirer into the commercial 
activities of the target.” (at paragraph 35). 
 
12. 
 In this backdrop, the Commission has considered the submissions of the Acquirer. 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 11 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
Abatement of proceedings because of non-consummation of the Combination 
 
12.1. S. 44 SCN issued to UltraTech relates to omission to file material information and 
making an incorrect statement in the Notice. The parties to a combination are required 
to provide complete and correct information on all the aspects asked for in the 
designated form for filing of notice. The competition assessment undertaken and 
consequent decision of the Commission is primarily based on the information provided 
in the notice. Once the Commission has passed an order, it has no control on the 
subsequent consummation or non-consummation of a transaction and may only be left 
with the option of revoking the decision in the event it comes to know that the 
information was either incomplete or incorrect. Thus, the fact of non-consummation of 
the Combination cannot be considered to be relevant to the proceedings initiated under 
Section 43A or Section 44 of the Act and the same cannot be abated. The submissions 
of UltraTech in this regard are not tenable and hence, rejected. 
 
Consideration of shareholding of family members  
 
12.2. The Acquirer has submitted that the definition of ‘group’ under the Act does not bring 
members of a ‘family’ within its ambit and that ‘family’ has not been defined in the Act. 
In this regard, it may be noted that what is of the essence here is collective common 
control of certain individuals and enterprises over an enterprise; the individuals may or 
may not comprise a family. The assessment of common control has been an integral part 
of the decisional practice of the Commission as detailed hereunder.  
  
12.3. The Commission, vide its order dated 28.01.2015, in a combination notice given by 
various Nirma entities (C-2014/11/221) observed that:  
 
“…from the information given in the notice and other material available on record that 
ultimate control over the business activities of Nirma, BHPL, KHPL, Kulgam, LHPL, 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 12 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
UHPL and KCPPL, both before and after the combination remains with the promoter, 
Shri. Karsanbhai K. Patel, through the shareholding in various capacities and through 
the immediate family members.”  
 
“… In view of the foregoing, the proposed combination is not likely to have any adverse 
effect on competition in India.”  
 
12.4. Similarly, the Commission, vide its order dated 04.09.2014 in a combination notice 
given by various Zuari entities (C-2014/06/181), observed that  
 
“Further, considering the common promoter shareholding and presence of common 
directors in ZACL, Zuari Global Limited (a holding company of ZACL) and Chambal 
Fertilisers and Chemicals Ltd. (“Chambal”), for the purpose of competition assessment 
of the proposed combination, the market shares of Chambal in respect of relevant 
products have been ascribed to those of the Parties.”  
 
12.5. It is pertinent to note that the Aditya Birla Conglomerate itself sought to benefit from 
the aforesaid competition assessment approach in the ABCIL Grasim Combination 
Case. Contrary to the submissions made in Response to S. 44 SCN that there is no 
enterprise above Grasim that could be classified as constituting a ‘group’, it was 
submitted in the ABCIL-Grasim case that Grasim and ABCIL belong to the Aditya Birla 
Group. The Aditya Birla Group as considered by the parties in the said case collectively 
included the KM Family and enterprises owned/controlled by it. As a factor in 
competition assessment, submissions were made regarding the decisive influence of KM 
Family and enterprises/owned controlled by it. In this regard, the parties in the said case 
submitted a certificate according to which KM Family, directly or indirectly, 
owns/controls certain companies namely […]. The combined shareholding of KM 
Family and aforesaid entities said to be owned/controlled by them is around 25.45 
percent in Grasim and 34.59 percent in Hindalco. It was further submitted that since KM 
Family and entities controlled by it constitute the single largest shareholder group in 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 13 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
both ABCIL and Grasim and other shareholders are dispersed, they have the ability to 
exercise decisive influence over ABCIL and Grasim.  
 
12.6. S. 44 SCN is based on the very facts and basis on which the parties sought the approval 
of the Commission in ABCIL-Grasim Combination Case. The Commission has 
considered the shareholding of KM Family and the same entities which were said to be 
owned/controlled by KM Family in Century and Kesoram. In fact the shareholding of 
KM Family and enterprises owned/controlled by them in Century exceeds their 
shareholding in Grasim and Hindalco. Taken together, these shareholders held around 
[…] percent shares in Century and […] percent shares in Kesoram as on 31.12.2014. 
 
12.7. In view of the aforesaid observations on the relevance of common control of 
individuals/enterprises in competition assessment and specific submission of the parties 
in ABCIL-Grasim Combination Case, the Commission observes that submissions of the 
Acquirer are contradictory and cannot be considered as tenable. 
 
Issue of control of KM Family and enterprises/owned controlled by them over Century 
and Kesoram 
 
12.8. As regards the issue of control over Century and Kesoram, the Acquirer has made 
reference to the three limbs of definition of ‘group’ as contained in explanation (b) to 
Section 5 of the Act. The Commission observes that the first test of the two enterprises 
belonging to the same group is the ability to exercise 50 percent or more voting rights; 
the second test is in terms of ability to control majority of composition of Board of 
Directors; and the third test, which is most dynamic, is in terms of ability to control or 
manage the affairs of the other enterprise. 
 
12.9. The Acquirer has submitted that the Act does not intend to envisage control with 
shareholding less than 50 percent. In this regard, it is noted that the three limbs are 
‘either/or’ tests and fulfilment of even a single limb would confer control. For example, 
if a particular enterprise does not hold 50 percent shares in the other enterprise, it may 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 14 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
still have the ability to control if it has majority on the Board of Directors. Similarly, in 
the event, an enterprise does not have requisite shareholding nor the ability to control 
majority composition of the Board of Directors, it is possible to infer control by virtue 
of ability to control and manage the affairs of the other enterprise. The Commission 
observes that as pointed out by the Acquirer, ability to manage the affairs of the other 
enterprise may be inferred from special rights/veto rights. However, special rights/veto 
rights are not the only basis for inferring the ability to manage/control the affairs of an 
enterprise and there can be other sources of control as well viz., status and expertise of 
an enterprise or person, Board representation, structural/financial arrangements etc. In 
competition law practice, control is considered as a matter of degree. However, all 
degrees and forms of control nonetheless constitute control. The international 
jurisprudence considers  ‘material influence’ as the lowest form of control with other 
higher forms such as de facto control and controlling interest (de jure control) in that 
order.  
 
12.10. Material influence, the lowest level of control, implies presence of factors which give 
an enterprise ability to influence affairs and management of the other enterprise 
including factors such as shareholding, special rights, status and expertise of 
an enterprise or person, Board representation, structural/financial arrangements etc. De 
facto control implies a situation where an enterprise holds less than majority of the 
voting rights, but in practice controls over more than half of the votes actually cast at a 
meeting. Further, the factors relevant for material influence are relevant for ascertaining 
de facto control as well. It may be noted that the concepts of material influence and de 
facto control are very significant in competition law as there can be situations where the 
commercial realities can be more telling than the formal agreements and structures. 
Controlling interest or de jure control means a shareholding conferring more than 50 
percent of the voting rights of an enterprise. It may be noted that only one enterprise can 
have a controlling interest in the other enterprise but more than one enterprise can 
control the other enterprise (situation of joint control). Likewise, there are other terms 
which are used to express control such as negative control (by virtue of ability to block 
special resolutions) or operational control (by virtue of commercial cooperation 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 15 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
agreements with or without involving equity). Thus, while examining the third limb of 
the definition of group, regard needs to be given to the likelihood of the aforesaid 
degrees of control and not just the special rights as considered by the Acquirer. 
  
12.11. As stated earlier, in the instant case, going by the certificate submitted by Aditya Birla 
Group in ABCIL-Grasim Case, the shareholding of KM Family and enterprises 
owned/controlled by them is around […] percent in Century and […] percent in 
Kesoram, which definitely gives them the ability to exercise negative control by virtue 
of their shareholding itself. The Acquirer has made submissions regarding the ‘at best’ 
and ‘at worst’ estimates of shareholding based on ability to exercise indirect control and 
beneficial interest respectively. However, going by the certificate submitted in ABCIL-
Grasim Case which categorically states that the enterprises listed therein are 
‘owned/controlled by KM Family’, it is reasonable to consider the entire shareholding 
of such enterprises in Century and Kesoram and the same would be consistent with the 
indirect control approach used by the Acquirer for arriving at ‘at best’ estimates of 
shareholding.  
 
12.12. The second limb considers determination of control based on the ability to control 
majority of composition of the Board of Directors. Accordingly, it may be inferred that 
if an enterprise has the ability to control the majority of composition of the Board of 
Directors, it may have outright control, however, even if there is no ability to control 
majority of the Board composition, the enterprise(s) may have material influence over 
the affairs of the other enterprise.  
 
 
12.13. Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla, as per the submissions of the Acquirer, occupied 1 seat on 
the Board of Directors of Century while also being on the Board of UltraTech at the 
time of filing the Notice, and he chaired 4 out of a total of 20 Board meetings of Century 
held from the financial year 2012-13 till date. The same may have led to material 
influence of Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla over the affairs of Century. As regards the 
significance of individual investor, reference may be made to the decisional practice in 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 16 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
the United Kingdom. The guidance on the UK CMA’s jurisdiction and procedure states 
at paragraph 4.28 that “merger arrangements may give rise to a position of ‘de facto’ 
control…might also involve situations where an investor’s industry expertise leads to 
its advice being followed to a greater extent than its shareholding would seem to 
warrant”. Though a determinative finding on the same may need more examination of 
the commercial realities, the same is not required at this stage considering that S. 44 
SCN is on the aspect of omission to provide material information and therefore the 
aforesaid assessment is only aimed to highlight the materiality of the information 
omitted. Further, even in the absence of any material influence, being on the Board of a 
competitor allows access to competitively sensitive information which can facilitate 
tacit collusion. UltraTech has itself submitted that the role of Mr. Kumar Magalam Birla 
is limited to participating in the meetings for broad and high level discussion on policy 
issues. This aspect in itself highlights the fact that a single Board seat is also highly 
relevant to competition assessment and needs to be disclosed by the parties.  
 
12.14. Apart from the aforesaid degrees of control, the Commission by way of its decisional 
practice and specific provision in the Combination Regulations, has elaborated on the 
shareholding in the ordinary course of business or solely as an investment. The 
Commission vide its order dated 10.11.2014 in a combination notice filed by New Moon 
B.V. (“New Moon Case”) C-2014-08-202,  held: 
 
“an acquisition of shares or voting rights, even if it is of less than 25 per cent, may raise 
competition concerns if the acquirer and the target are either engaged in business of 
substitutable products/services or are engaged in activities at different stages or levels 
of the production chain. Such acquisitions need not necessarily be termed as an 
acquisition made solely as an investment or in the ordinary course of business, and thus 
would require competition assessment, on a case to case basis, under the relevant 
provisions of the Act.”  
 
12.15. Though the aforesaid decision is in context of acquisition of shares and notifiability of 
a transaction, the same is applicable in equal measure on existing shareholdings for the 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 17 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
purpose of competition assessment. Following the reasons detailed in the New Moon 
Case, if any enterprise holds/acquires shares in a competitor or a market player engaged 
in activities at different stages of production chain, such existing shareholding cannot 
be considered as in ordinary course of business/solely as an investment and therefore 
the parties are expected to disclose details of such shareholdings in the notice. 
Considering that this decision of the Commission pre-dates the Combination, the 
Acquirer should have been aware of the same and filed all the requisite details. 
Notwithstanding the findings of the Commission as regards shareholding of KM Family 
and enterprises owned/controlled by them leading to negative control, the Acquirer was 
under an obligation to disclose the details of shareholding in accordance with the New 
Moon Case even if its ‘at best’ and ‘at worst’ shareholding estimates are considered as 
valid. 
 
12.16. The Commission observes that Item 1 of Schedule I of the Combination Regulations 
also contains provisions relating to ordinary course of business or solely as an 
investment. It provides that acquisition of less than 25 percent of shares/voting rights 
solely as an investment or in the ordinary course of business may not require notification 
as the same is not ordinarily likely to raise any concerns of AAEC.  In 2016, the same 
was amended to include an explanation as to what constitutes solely as an investment. 
As per the said explanation, the acquisition of less than 10 percent of share capital/voting 
rights may be treated as solely as an investment if (a) the investor does not have any 
special rights; and (b) the investor is not a member of the Board of Directors of the 
target. Though, as on the date of alleged omission, the only decision relevant was New 
Moon B.V. as per which investment in competitor could not be considered as in the 
ordinary course of business/solely as an investment, even if the subsequent clarification 
in Combination Regulations is considered, the shareholding of KM Family and entities 
owned/controlled by it in Century would still not be solely as an investment regardless 
of the extent of shareholding because of presence of Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla on the 
Board of Century. Thus, even if UltraTech’s own estimates of shareholding are 
considered, the same can still not be considered as in the ordinary course of business or 
solely as an investment. 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 18 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
12.17. Thus, based on the aforesaid examination of facts, the Commission observes that: 
 
i. 
As per the own submissions of UltraTech, KM Family and entities 
owned/controlled by it held, directly or indirectly, shareholding of […] percent at 
best and […] percent at worst in Century and […] percent at best and […] percent 
at worst in Kesoram. As per the Commission’s assessment based on certificate 
submitted by the parties in the ABCIL-Grasim Combination Case, the 
shareholding of KM Family and entities owned/controlled by it appears to be 
around […] percent in Century and […] percent in Kesoram which may confer 
negative control upon KM Family together with the entities owned/controlled by 
it over Century and Kesoram. Further, even going by shareholding admitted by the 
Acquirer, it may be inferred on the basis of New Moon B.V. decision that such 
shareholding is strategic and cannot be said to be in the ordinary course of 
business. Also, the shareholding remains strategic even considering the 
explanation given in the Combination Regulations due to Board presence of Mr. 
Kumar Mangalam Birla; and 
 
ii. 
With the presence of Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla on Board of Century, likelihood 
of material influence of Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla over Century and competition 
distortions from access to competitively sensitive information cannot be ruled out. 
 
12.18. Based on the aforesaid observations, the Commission is of the opinion that the criticality 
of information omitted to be provided by UltraTech, which was the subject matter of 
Section 44 proceedings, is established and in view of that, determinative findings 
particularly on the aspect of control are not required.  
 
 
 
 
 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 19 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Whether UltraTech provided all the information required by the Act?  
 
12.19. The Commission observes that even considering the submissions of the Acquirer 
regarding defining ‘group’ at the level of Grasim, it was under obligation to provide 
details of shareholding of promoters of Grasim particularly when such shareholding was 
in a competitor. Question 9.1 of Form II categorically requires:  
 
“a list of all the enterprises belonging to the same group for each of the parties to the 
combination, and list all the enterprise(s) controlling the parties to the combination, 
directly or indirectly, along with the nature and means of control”. 
 
The Acquirer while detailing the requirements of question 9.1 deliberately focussed on 
the first part, i.e., a list of all enterprises belonging to the same group for each of the 
parties to the combination. The Acquirer has submitted that as it considered Grasim as 
constituting ‘group’ to which UltraTech belonged, it accordingly provided details of 
Grasim. The Commission notes that the Acquirer has omitted the information required 
by the second part, which requires a list of all the enterprise(s) controlling the parties to 
the combination, directly or indirectly, along with the nature and means of control. This 
part clearly brings out that the Act envisages likelihood of control of an enterprise by 
more than one enterprise and also requires information as regards such enterprises, who 
basically would be the promoters. Thus, as per the requirements of question 9.1 of Form 
II, the Acquirer was under an obligation to provide a list of all the promoters of Grasim 
who directly or indirectly control UltraTech. 
 
12.20.  Question 9.3 of Form II  requires: 
 
“Whether the parties to the combination and another enterprise or group referred to at 
9.1 and 9.2 above, are engaged in production, distribution or trading of similar or 
identical or substitutable products or provisions of similar/identical or substitutable 
products. If yes, provide following details:  

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 20 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
A. Names of similar or identical or substitutable products or services; and  
B. Market share of each of the products or services mentioned in (a) above, prior to and 
after the combination.” 
 
It may be noted that question 9.3 requires market information not only of the parties to 
the combination but also ‘another enterprise or group referred to at questions 9.1 and 
9.2’. Thus, had the Acquirer provided complete details of question 9.1, it would have 
been required to provide details of market share etc. in respect of any overlaps that may 
have arisen at the level of promoters of Grasim. These overlaps would have related to 
cement because of shareholding of promoters of Grasim in Century and Kesoram and 
the Acquirer would have been required to provide the details of the same. 
 
 
12.21. Further, it may also be noted that as per question 13 to Form II, “the parties to the 
combination are also encouraged to submit any other information that they believe 
could assist the Commission in assessing the proposed combination and the markets 
involved”. Considering the aforesaid discussions on materiality of the information and 
the fact that the Aditya Birla Group has made submissions regarding the decisive 
influence of promoter group in ABCIL/Grasim case believing that it would have had a 
material impact on the assessment of the proposed combination, it was incumbent on 
the Acquirer to furnish such details in this case as well.  
 
 
12.22. As regards the submissions of UltraTech that it would have been willing to provide 
information if the Commission had asked for the same during the review process, it may 
be noted that the parties to the combination are better placed to identify and provide 
complete information which is relevant for competition assessment themselves. The 
Commission cannot foresee various possible structural relationships of the parties to the 
combination and the statement made by UltraTech that Century is a competitor obviated 
the need for the Commission to scrutinise the shareholding pattern of Century. The 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 21 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
possibility that the Commission can seek any information does not absolve UltraTech 
of its obligations and therefore, the argument of UltraTech is not convincing.   
 
12.23. As regards the submissions of UltraTech that news reports cannot be construed as 
evidence, it may be noted that news reports were mentioned as a supplemental factor 
and that too at the stage of issuing show cause notice. Considering that substance of 
certain news reports has been confirmed by the Acquirer itself, there is no need to even 
consider the other news reports at this stage.  
 
12.24. As regards non-disclosure of internal assessment report by the Commission as part of 
inspection of documents and the same being against the principles of natural justice, it 
may be noted that the same is a confidential internal document which as per the General 
Regulations cannot be shared with the parties. As per UltraTech’s submissions, Century 
had […] percent share in terms of installed capacity in the market delineated by 
UltraTech. As the relevant market delineated by the Commission was different from that 
delineated by Ultratech, the share of Century was estimated to be around […] percent 
instead of […] percent as estimated by UltraTech. However, this difference in market 
share estimates does not take anything away from the fact that it was incorrect on the 
part of UltraTech to present Century as a competitor and the claims of violation of 
principles of natural justice due to non-provision of internal report do not seem tenable.  
 
13. 
Based on the aforesaid assessment, the Commission observes that UltraTech had omitted 
to provide information regarding shareholding/control of KM Family over Century and 
Kesoram and had made a factually incorrect submission indicating Century as its 
competitor. The same attracts penalty under Section 44 of the Act. Section 44 of the Act 
reads as under:  
 
“If any person being a party to the combination –  
a. Makes a statement which is false in any material particular, or knowing it to be false; 
or 
b. Omits to state any material particular knowing it to be material, 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/02/246) 
 
 
Page 22 of 22 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
Such person shall be liable to a penalty which shall not be less than rupees fifty lakhs but 
which may extend to rupees one crore, as may be determined by the Commission”  
 
14. 
Accordingly, in terms of Section 44 of the Act, the Commission can levy a minimum 
penalty of rupees fifty lakhs and a maximum penalty of rupees one crore. Considering the 
facts of the case, the Commission considers it appropriate to impose a penalty of INR 
50,00,000/- (INR Fifty Lakhs only) on the Acquirer. 
 
15. 
The Acquirer shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of this 
order. 
 
16. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Acquirer accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
