     
                                                                                                            Page 1 of 10 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
22nd August 2023 
Proceedings against NTPC Limited under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 
CORAM:  
 
Ms. Ravneet Kaur 
Chairperson 
 
Ms. Sangeeta Verma 
Member 
 
Mr. Bhagwant Singh Bishnoi  
Member 
Appearances  
 
For NTPC Limited:  Mr. Ramji Srinivasan. Sr. Advocate, Ms. Nisha Kaur Uberoi, Advocate, 
Mr.Gautam Chawla, Advocate, Mr. Ankush Walia, Advocate, Ms. 
Akansha Agrawal, Advocate, Ms. Namrata Saroagi, Advocate, Ms. 
Sangeeta Kaushik,  Representative of NTPC, Mr. P.C. Vishwanathan, 
Representative of NTPC. 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 
 
1. This Order shall dispose of the proceedings under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 
2002 (Act) against NTPC Limited (NTPC/Acquirer) regarding acquisition of 35.47% of 
the equity share capital in Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Limited (RGPPL/Target).  
 
Background 
 
2. The Commission had observed from the information available in the public domain that 
NTPC had acquired 35.47% of the equity share capital of RGPPL without giving a notice 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 2 of 10 
 
to the Commission in terms of Section 6(2) of the Act.  In this regard, on 8th February 
2022, the Commission issued a letter to NTPC under Section 36(4) of the Act, in relation 
to acquisition of 35.47% shares in RGPPL by NTPC from the Lenders i.e., IDBI, ICICI, 
SBI, IFCI and Canara Bank whereby the shareholding of NTPC in RGPPL increased 
from 25.51% to 60.98%.  The letter was issued for seeking information so as to assess 
whether further proceeding is required under Section 20(1) and/or Section 43A of the Act.  
3. NTPC, in its response submitted on 8th March 2022, provided information pertaining to 
its acquisition of 35.47% equity shareholding in RGPPL from lenders of RGPPL 
(Transaction 1). Further, NTPC also disclosed: (a) Demerger of the 5 million metric tons 
per annum (MMTPA) regasified Liquid Natural Gas (LNG) terminal and associated 
facilities of RGPPL (LNG Undertaking) and vesting the same into Konkan LNG 
Limited (KLL) [Demerger of LNG Undertaking/Transaction 2]; (b) Acquisition by 
GAIL (India) Limited (GAIL) of 14.82% equity stake in KLL from NTPC (Transaction 
3); and (c) Acquisition by NTPC of 25.51% equity stake in RGPPL from GAIL 
(Transaction 4).  Since the information provided in the response was not complete, a 
letter was issued to NTPC on 7th April 2022 seeking certain clarifications. After seeking 
extension of time, NTPC submitted a comprehensive response on 15th July 2022. 
4. In the response dated 15th July 2022, NTPC, inter alia, stated with respect to Transaction 
1 that NTPC‟s 35.47% acquisition in RGPPL was undertaken as an independent 
transaction (i) to revive RGPPL and resolve its Non-performing Asset classification, (ii) 
make RGPPL a viable business and (iii) supplement the Central Government's vision for 
RGPPL. Further, NTPC consummated the composite resolution plan with RGPPL and its 
lenders, i.e., IDBI, ICICI, SBI, IFCI and Canara Bank on 31st December 2020. Given that 
the debt was a One-Time Settlement (OTS) by NTPC, equity shares of RGPPL held by 
such lenders (as security) were consequently transferred to NTPC. Thus, NTPC‟s 
shareholding in RGPPL increased from 25.51% to 60.98%. 
 
 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 3 of 10 
 
Initiation of proceedings and issue of SCN 
 
5. The Commission, in its meeting held on 20th October 2022, considered the material on 
record including NTPC submissions dated 15th July 2022 and noted that, prior to 
Transaction 1 i.e., acquisition of 35.47% equity shareholding in RGPPL, NTPC already 
held 25.51% equity shareholding in RGPPL. Therefore, when NTPC acquired 35.47% 
equity shareholding in RGPPL, its shareholding in RGPPL increased to 60.98%. 
Considering that the shareholding of NTPC in RGPPL after Transaction 1 exceeded 50%, 
Transaction 1 did not benefit from Item 1A of Schedule I of Competition Commission of 
India (Procedure in Regard to the Transaction of Business relating to Commission) 
Regulations, 2011 (Combination Regulations). Thus, the Commission was of the prima 
facie opinion that Transaction 1 was a notifiable transaction that ought to have been 
notified to the Commission prior to its consummation on 31st December 2020 in terms of 
the provisions of Section 6(2) of the Act read with Regulation 5 of the Combination 
Regulations. However, NTPC failed to comply with such requirement. 
6. Further, based on submissions of NTPC with respect to Transaction 2 i.e., demerger of 
LNG Undertaking and Transaction 3 i.e., GAIL‟s 14.82% acquisition, the Commission 
noted that the exemption given vide Government of India Notification no. S.O. 988(E) 
dated 27th March 2017 and extended vide Notification no. S.O. 1192(E) dated 16th March 
2022 was applicable to these transactions. With respect to Transaction 4 i.e., NTPC‟s 
25.51% acquisition in RGPPL, it was noted that the benefit given under Item 2 of 
Schedule I of the Combination Regulations was available for the transaction.  
7. In view of the above, the Commission issued a show cause notice (SCN) vide its letter 
dated 27th October 2022 to NTPC under Section 20(1) and 43A of the Act read with 
Regulation 8(2) of the Combination Regulations and Regulation 48 of the Competition 
Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009 (CCI General Regulations, 2009) to 
explain, in writing, why NTPC should not be found in contravention of the obligation 
contained in Section 6(2) of the Act and why no penalty in terms of Section 43A of the 
Act should be imposed on it. NTPC was also asked to explain why the Commission 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 4 of 10 
 
should not direct it to give notice in terms of Regulation 8(2) of the Combination 
Regulations.  
8. After taking extensions, on 23rd December 2022, NTPC submitted its response to the SCN 
and the Commission considered the same in its meeting held on 18th May 2023. The 
Commission also considered NTPC‟s request for grant of hearing and decided to allow 
the same. Accordingly, NTPC was directed to appear before the Commission for hearing 
on 18th July 2023.  
9. On 18th July 2023, the Commission heard NTPC at length. The Commission further 
allowed NTPC to file its written submissions, which were received on 28th July 2023.  
Submissions of NTPC 
 
10. By way of background, NTPC has submitted that it is a Central Public Sector Enterprise 
(CPSE). It was incorporated in 1975 to accelerate power development in India. NTPC 
became a Maharatna company in May 2010 and presently, the Government of India owns 
51.1% equity stake in NTPC.  
11. Dabhol Power Company Limited (DPCL) was incorporated on 23rd April 1993 as a joint 
venture with Enron being the majority shareholder with 65% equity stake in DPCL. On 
8th July 2005, in compliance with the directives of the Government of India, RGPPL was 
incorporated. NTPC contributed INR 500 crore towards equity in RGPPL and a similar 
amount was contributed by GAIL and Institutional Financial Investors (IFIs), 
respectively. Accordingly, on 6th October 2005, the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) i.e., 
RGPPL took over the assets of DPCL on an „as is where is basis‟, including an integrated 
gas based combined cycle power project with an estimated capacity of approximately 
1967 MW (Power Undertaking) and LNG Undertaking.  
12. NTPC has submitted that due to the curtailment of natural gas from KG D-6 basin, 
RGPPL‟s Power Undertaking operations were stopped in July 2013. Subsequently, 
Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEB) terminated the PPA 
with RGPPL in May 2014, which added further financial burden upon RGPPL. In 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 5 of 10 
 
December 2015, KLL was incorporated as a subsidiary of RGPPL, for taking over the 
operations of LNG Undertaking. In 2018 and 2019, post the demerger of the LNG 
Undertaking into KLL, Canara Bank, IDBI and SBI declared the loan account of RGPPL 
as Non-Performing Asset (NPA). In November 2019, NTPC, as the promoter, suggested 
RGPPL to take up with its lenders to explore various options including OTS for 
settlement of NPA. As a part of the resolution plan for settlement of outstanding debt of 
RGPPL through OTS by NTPC, 35.47% of the equity held by lenders (IDBI, ICICI, SBI, 
IFCI and Canara Bank) in RGPPL was transferred to NTPC on 31 December 2020.  
13. With respect to Transaction 1 (Concerned Transaction) NTPC has contended that the 
same was not notifiable to the Commission. Summarily, the arguments of NTPC in this 
regard are, inter alia, as under:  
 
(i) 
The ultimate intent of the Concerned Transaction was not to acquire equity 
shares or additional governance rights and/or control, as understood in 
commercial parlance. The Concerned Transaction was undertaken to repay 
debt of RGPPL through OTS in public and national interest to revive an asset 
of national importance. NTPC did not acquire any additional rights in any 
form. Therefore, pursuant to the Concerned Transaction, „in substance‟ there 
has been no change in control in RGPPL and resultantly, no impact on the 
market or competition. 
 
(ii) 
After consummation of the Concerned Transaction, only NTPC's equity 
shareholding increased from 25.51% to 60.98% in RGPPL, however, its rights 
in RGPPL remained the same. Both before and after the Concerned 
Transaction, NTPC exercised joint control in RGPPL along with GAIL and 
MSEB, since both GAIL and MSEB continued to have board representation in 
RGPPL. Further, no new shareholders‟ agreement has been entered into 
between NTPC, GAIL and MSEB post consummation of the Concerned 
Transaction.  
 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 6 of 10 
 
(iii) The Commission has already analysed and approved more than ten transactions 
including one filed by NTPC for acquisition of Jhabua Power Limited1 
(Jhabua form). Thus, the Commission has already looked at the power sector 
(i.e., the overlap of activities of NTPC and RGPPL) and in peculiar facts and 
circumstances of the present case, also analysed the sector vis-à-vis NTPC 
while considering NTPC‟s acquisition of Jhabua Power Limited.  
 
(iv) The Concerned Transaction could avail the benefit of exemption given vide 
Government of India Notification no. S.O. 3714(E) dated 22nd November, 2017 
(O&G Exemption) as both NTPC and GAIL, which jointly control RGPPL, 
are CPSEs and GAIL operates in gas sector.  
 
14. Further, NTPC has submitted that in the event, the NTPC is found to have acted in 
contravention of Section 43A of the Act, the Commission may consider the following 
mitigating factors: (i) NTPC did not conceal any transaction and on their own volition 
disclosed to the Commission the consummation of three transactions, i.e., the Demerger 
of LNG Undertaking, GAIL‟s 14.82% Acquisition in KLL and NTPC‟s 25.51% 
Acquisition in RGPPL to assist the Commission; (ii) NTPC made full and complete 
disclosure of the acquisition of RGPPL in the Jhabua form and made no effort to conceal 
the Concerned Transaction, rather NTPC inadvertently omitted seeking prior approval of 
the Commission; (iii) Central Government‟s directives led to RGPPL‟s incorporation and 
the Concerned Transaction was also carried out in order to revive a national asset; (iv) the 
Concerned Transaction neither resulted in AAEC nor transfer from joint to sole control; 
(v) RGPPL was a failing firm and NTPC‟s debt acquisition was aimed to revive a national 
asset; (vi) the power sector in India is highly competitive and fragmented in nature, as 
such, the Concerned Transaction does not impact the competitive landscape of the power 
sector in India; (vii) there are no previous violations of the Act by NTPC and (viii) NTPC 
has always acted in a bona fide manner and sought to co-operate to the fullest extent with 
the Commission.  
                                                          
1 Combination Registration No. C-2021/12/884 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 7 of 10 
 
 
15. In addition, NTPC has submitted that it should not be directed to file notice in terms of 
Regulation 8(2) of the Combination Regulations read with Section 20(1) of the Act, inter 
alia, for the reasons that: (i) about two (2) years have elapsed since the consummation of 
the Concerned Transaction; (ii) the process of filing a notice would be cumbersome and 
redundant for NTPC since it would need to furnish dated information/data; (iii) the 
Commission would need to analyse the market dynamics in a constantly evolving and 
dynamic sector (i.e., power sector) from an outdated perspective; (iv) the Commission has 
already analysed and approved transactions in the power sector including one transaction 
filed by NTPC as the acquirer, where capacity of NTPC was over and above the 
acquisition of RGPPL and (v) it would not be in conformity with the Central 
Government‟s initiatives in relation to ease of doing business. 
 
Commission’s Analysis and Finding  
 
16. The Commission has considered the submissions of NTPC as well as heard the arguments 
advanced by their learned counsel. The issue for determination before the Commission is: 
“Whether NTPC, by acquisition of 35.47% shareholding in RGPPL without filing a 
notice with the Commission, has contravened the provisions of Section 6(2) and Section 
6(2A) of the Act and is, hence, liable for penalty under Section 43A of the Act”.  
 
17. Under Section 5 of the Act, acquisition of control / shares / voting rights / assets of one or 
more enterprises by one or more persons or merger or amalgamation of enterprises shall 
amount to combination if the asset and turnover thresholds provided therein are exceeded. 
Further, Section 6(2) of the Act provides that the parties proposing to enter into a 
combination shall give a notice to the Commission and, as per Section 6(2A) of the Act, 
“No combination shall come into effect until two hundred and ten days have passed from 
the day on which the notice has been given to the Commission under sub-section (2) or 
the Commission has passed orders under Section 31, whichever is earlier.”  
 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 8 of 10 
 
18. The above provisions in effect imply that the mergers and acquisitions that are 
combinations in terms of Section 5 of the Act are mandatorily notifiable to the 
Commission and therefore, cannot be consummated, either entirely or in part, without 
approval from the Commission, unless they are exempted by the Government of India 
notification or are such combinations that fall under Schedule 1 of Combination 
Regulations, in respect of which a notice need not normally be filed.  
 
19. Under Item 1, 1A and 2 of Schedule I of Combination Regulations, the benefit is 
available to a transaction based on percentage of shares acquired, provided that such 
acquisition does not result in acquisition of control or change in control from joint to sole 
control. In a case where an enterprise prior to acquisition has more than 25% shares in the 
other enterprise, the exemption under Item 1A is available to the transaction if the 
shareholding does not exceed 50% after the transaction. For reference, Item 1A of 
Schedule I of Combination Regulations reads as follows: 
 
“An acquisition of additional shares or voting rights of an enterprise by the acquirer or 
its group, where the acquirer or its group, prior to acquisition, already holds twenty 
five per cent (25%) or more shares or voting rights of the enterprise, but does not hold 
fifty per cent (50%) or more of the shares or voting rights of the enterprise, either prior 
to or after such acquisition: Provided that such acquisition does not result in 
acquisition of sole or joint control of such enterprise by the acquirer or its group” 
 
20. In the instant case, the Commission observes that the Concerned Transaction was a 
combination in terms of the provisions of Section 5 of the Act and did not benefit from 
any exemption given vide Government of India notification. Further, NTPC, at the time of 
the Concerned Transaction, already held 25.51% equity shareholding in RGPPL and 
when it acquired a 35.47% equity stake in RGPPL, its shareholding increased from 
25.51% to 60.98%. Considering that the shareholding of NTPC in RGPPL after the 
Concerned Transaction exceeded 50%, benefit under Item 1A of Schedule I of 
Combination Regulations was also not available to the Concerned Transaction and the 
same ought to have been notified to the Commission, even if NTPC did not get any 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 9 of 10 
 
additional control conferring rights or the transaction did not result in change in control 
from joint to sole control. 
 
21. Further, with respect to arguments of NTPC that the Concerned transaction did not result 
in AAEC in India, it is observed that the mandatory regime for notifying a proposed 
combination to the Commission is applicable, irrespective of whether the combination 
causes any AAEC in India or not. The Commission, in its order relating to penalty 
proceedings under Section 43A of the Act against Intellect Design Arena Limited, has 
already observed: “…. the Act clearly provides, irrespective of whether there is any 
appreciable adverse effect on Competition in India or not, there is mandatory regime for 
notifying a combination to the Commission.”  
 
22. In view of the foregoing, the Commission is of the opinion that NTPC, by consummating 
the Concerned Transaction without filing a notice with the Commission in terms of 
Section 6(2) of the Act prior to acquisition, has contravened the provisions of Section 
6(2) read with Section 6(2A) of the Act, and hence, is liable to a penalty under Section 
43A of the Act, which reads as under: 
 
“If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission under sub-
section (2) of Section 6, the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a 
penalty which may extend to one per cent of the total turnover or assets, whichever is 
higher, of such a combination.”  
 
23. It is to be noted that Section 43A of the Act prescribes the extent of penalty that can be 
levied for failure to file notice; however, the Commission can consider the conduct of the 
parties and circumstances of the case to arrive at an appropriate amount of penalty. 
 
24. In the instant matter, the Commission considered the mitigating factors mentioned in para 
14 above and the conduct of NTPC whereby it extended cooperation and provided the 
material/documents as sought by the Commission. However, NTPC cannot be exculpated 

 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             Page 10 of 10 
 
of its statutory obligation to file notice with the Commission prior to consummation of the 
Concerned Transaction. 
25. Thus, considering the facts and circumstances of the case and the conduct of NTPC, the 
Commission decides to impose a penalty of INR 40,00,000 (INR Forty Lakh only) on 
NTPC. NTPC shall pay the penalty within 60 days from the date of receipt of this order. 
26. The Secretary is directed to inform NTPC, accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
