Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 26 
 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
9th March 2022 
 
Proceedings against Adani Green Energy Limited under Section 43A of the Competition 
Act, 2002 
CORAM: 
Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta 
Chairperson 
 
Ms. Sangeeta Verma 
Member 
 
Mr. Bhagwant Singh Bishnoi 
Member 
 
Appearances during the hearing for Adani Green Energy Limited 
Mr. Ramji Srinivasan, Senior Advocate with Mr. Shivkrit Rai, Ms. Avaantika Kakkar, Mr. Vijay 
Pratap Singh Chauhan, Ms. Aakriti Thakur, Advocates along with Mr. Anupam Misra, Senior Vice 
President and Mr. Jatin Jalundhwala, Joint President – Legal and Company Secretary, Adani 
Group 
 
ORDER UNDER SECTION 43A OF THE COMPETITION ACT, 2002 
 
This order shall govern the disposal of the proceedings initiated against Adani Green Energy 
Limited (AGEL/Acquirer) under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 (Act) in relation to 
its acquisition of the entire shareholding of S.B. Energy Holding Limited (Target) (Combination) 
in pursuance of the show cause notice dated 14th August 2021 (SCN). The said transaction was 
notified to the Competition Commission of India (Commission) by AGEL in Combination 
Registration No. C-2021/05/837. The said notification (Notice) was given by AGEL on 20th May 
2021, pursuant to Section 6(2) of the Act, in Form I of Schedule II to the Competition Commission 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 26 
 
of India (Procedure in regard to the transaction of business relating to combinations) Regulations, 
2011 (Combination Regulations).   
 
A. 
Background 
 
2. 
The Notice was filed pursuant to the execution of Share Purchase Agreements by and 
between the Acquirer and Softbank Group Capital Limited (Softbank) (Softbank SPA) and 
between the Acquirer and Bharti Global Limited, both dated 18th May 2021.  
 
3. 
During the review of the Combination, the Commission noted that Clause 
 of the 
Softbank SPA (Clause) reads as follows: 
 
 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 26 
 
 
 
4. 
In terms of Regulation 14 of the Combination Regulations, a letter dated 4th June 2021 was 
issued to AGEL (RFI) wherein, inter alia, AGEL was required to share the details of steps 
taken (if any)/proposed to be undertaken and submit the documents containing details of 
deliberations made, information exchanged, and decisions taken pursuant to the Clause. 
 
5. 
In this regard, AGEL, vide response to RFI dated 9th June 2021 and voluntary submissions 
dated 12th June 2021, inter alia, submitted 
 
 
 
6. 
The Commission approved the Combination under Section 31(1) of the Act on 30th June 
2021 (Order), upon competition assessment of the business activities of the parties and after 
arriving at the opinion that the Combination is not likely to cause any appreciable adverse 
effect on competition in India. 
 
 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 26 
 
B. 
Initiation of proceedings under Section 43A of the Act  
 
7. 
The Commission, in its meeting held on 9th August 2021, considered the issue of potential 
contravention of standstill obligations as contained under Section 6(2A) of the Act given the 
terms of the Clause and the submissions of AGEL thereon made during the review of the 
Combination. The Commission was of the prima facie view that the Clause may have had 
the impact of consummating a part of the Combination before the expiry of the period 
specified under Section 6(2A) of the Act, and by agreeing to the same, the Acquirer failed 
to file notice in terms of Section 6(2) of the Act. Accordingly, the Commission issued SCN 
under Section 43A of the Act on 14th August 2021. 
 
8. 
The observations of the Commission in the SCN are as under: 
 
i. 
The purported action under the aforesaid Clause comes into effect right from the date 
of the execution of the Softbank SPA i.e., 18th May 2021, and therefore precedes the 
consideration and approval of the Combination by the Commission; 
 
ii. 
The Clause, inter alia, (i) allows the parties to discuss the ongoing business and 
operations of the Target and its subsidiaries; (ii) allows the Acquirer to provide inputs 
on the business of the Target; and (iii) provides for the Target to take such inputs into 
account in the best interests of the Target and its subsidiaries. Prima facie, the scope 
of the Clause is broader than what has been stated by the Acquirer, as it envisages the 
discussion on the “on-going business and operations of the target”. Such discussions 
and consequent inputs which may be provided by the Acquirer may result in the parties 
ceasing to act independently or ceasing to compete as the parties were competing 
before the Combination resulting in coordinated outcomes before the expiry of 
timelines contained in Section 6(2A) of the Act; 
 
iii. 
Prima facie, the safeguards contained in the Softbank SPA in the form of clean team 
protocols and the inputs being non-binding do not appear to be commensurate with the 
scope and likely effect of the Clause considering that exchange of information and 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 26 
 
provision of inputs is per se sufficient to lead to a situation similar to tacit collusion 
even if the inputs were non-binding or clean team protocols were followed. The issue 
of concern in such cases is access to information and the decisions being based on a 
wider pool of information, including the inputs of a competitor who is in the process 
of acquiring the business; 
 
iv. 
Notwithstanding the limited scope of clean team protocols as a safeguard in the current 
situation, the submissions of the Acquirer on following clean team protocols in 
aforesaid meetings also appear to be contradictory with the intent and purpose of the 
Clause. 
 of the Softbank SPA, which provides for clean teams, reads: 
 
 
 
 
  
 
It was observed that, while on one hand, 
 states that information will be 
disclosed only to duly constituted clean teams which shall be ring fenced from 
management, on the other hand, as per the Clause, the inputs are to be taken into 
account in the best interests of the Target. It is noteworthy that the aspect of “taking 
into account” necessarily implies that information is shared with the management, as 
in the absence of such a construct, the clean teams by themselves cannot act on the 
inputs on their own. 
 
9. 
AGEL filed its reply to the SCN on 3rd September 2021 along with a request for oral hearing 
in terms of Regulation 48 of the General Regulations, through their legal representatives, 
after seeking extension of time. The response was refiled on 7th September 2021 to comply 
with the Practice Direction issued by the Commission to ensure that pleadings are also signed 
by the person authorised by the board of directors of AGEL (Response to SCN). 
 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 26 
 
10. 
In its meeting held on 11th October 2021, the Commission considered the Response to SCN 
and decided to grant an oral hearing to AGEL on 26th October, 2021. However, vide letter 
dated 19th October 2021, AGEL requested to reschedule the date of the oral hearing. The 
Commission accepted the request of AGEL and granted a personal hearing on 10th November 
2021. Accordingly, AGEL presented its case before the Commission on 10th November 
2021. AGEL requested allowing submissions of relevant precedents/documents cited during 
the course of hearing, which was allowed by the Commission. AGEL submitted a 
compilation of the relevant precedents/documents that were cited during the personal 
hearing, vide email dated 15th November 2021. Further, AGEL refiled the non-confidential 
version of the Response to SCN on 9th December 2021, waiving certain confidentiality 
requests made earlier.  
 
C. 
Submissions of AGEL  
 
11. 
In the Response to SCN, AGEL contended the following: 
 
I. 
Clause should be read plainly without supposing extraneous meaning to the said 
clause and that the Clause is reasonable 
 
12. 
That the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in Nabha Power Limited v. Punjab State Power 
Corporation Limited and Anr 1 (Nabha Decision), while interpreting the terms of a 
commercial contract, observed that “it should certainly not be an endeavour of commercial 
courts to look to implied terms of contract....Thus, normally a contract should be read as it 
reads, as per its express terms. The implied terms is a concept, which is necessitated only 
when the Penta-test referred to aforesaid comes into play. There has to be a strict necessity 
for it.”  
 
13. 
That, based on reasons detailed hereunder, it is submitted that the Commission has implied 
meaning to Clause which is not possible from a plain reading of the said Clause, and that the 
                                                          
1 Civil Appeal No. 179 of 2017 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 26 
 
Clause is inherent and proportionate to the objective of ensuring certainty in business 
valuation of the Target and preservation of the same and does not violate the standstill 
obligations provided under Section 6(2A) of the Act. 
 
14. 
In this regard, the Acquirer has made the following submissions to emphasise that the 
impugned clause is reasonable: 
 
a. That the intent behind the Clause is solely to monitor and preserve the economic value 
of the Target based on any material developments or events between the signing and 
closing of the Transaction typical to transactions of this nature, 
 
 
  
 
b. That the Clause serves the purpose of assisting in preserving the economic value of the 
Target and conducting a due diligence review typical to transactions of this nature. That 
the information under this Clause is provided to the clean team of the Acquirer (which 
is constituted under 
 of the Softbank SPA) for the following reasons: (a) to 
assess the occurrence of any material adverse effect; (b) to assess potential 
 
revisions to the consideration payable to the Sellers, 
 
 
 
 and (c) such information is also required in procuring other regulatory approvals 
  
 To illustrate the same, it has been stated that the Target has 3.554 GW as 
under construction capacity, which was awarded to the Target under a competitive 
bidding process at the quoted tariff for the respective projects, and this capacity needs 
to be constructed in accordance with the timelines outlined in the respective power 
purchaser agreements in order to avoid any penalties and preserve the economic value 
of the Target; 
 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 26 
 
c. That the Clause envisages a mechanism through which the Acquirer receives 
information about any material developments that affect the Target’s projects and 
subsidiaries. The information in relation to such material developments is required to be 
provided to the Acquirer to enable the Acquirer to assess whether any specific 
development resulted in or could lead to material adverse effect on the Target and /or 
its subsidiaries. In the event of the occurrence of a material adverse effect which would 
directly affect the Acquirer’s business valuation, the Acquirer would have the ability to 
terminate the agreement and walk away from the Transaction; 
 
d. That in complex transactions, conducting such 
 teleconferences between signing 
and closing are routine industry practice and it enables parties to take stock of various 
conditions precedent necessary for achieving completion of the transaction within the 
agreed timelines. These forums are also necessary for the acquirer to understand if there 
have been any material developments that have affected the target business. The current 
Transaction is no different, and these teleconferences were of such a nature, and the 
Target/Seller informed the Acquirer in good faith of any material developments 
concerning the Target and its subsidiaries. Moreover, such measures are reasonable in 
order to protect the legitimate business interests of the Acquirer. Specifically in such 
teleconferences the Acquirer has balanced the twin goals, viz., (i) complying with the 
applicable laws (which includes complying with the provisions of the Act by instituting 
safeguards such as clean teams); and (ii) trying to ascertain whether the value of the 
Target has been preserved as advertised by the Seller; 
 
e. That whilst considering whether an interim covenant violated the provisions of Section 
6(2A) of the Act, the Commission in its decision in the Airtel/Tata case (Airtel 
Decision2) acknowledged that “… to ensure the value of business is preserved, the 
acquirer of a business may also be permitted to impose customary standstill and interim 
arrangements on the target”. The Commission further noted that “it is incumbent on 
                                                          
2 Order of the Commission under Section 43A of the Act dated 27.08.2018 in relation to Notice given under Section 
6(2) of the Competition Act, 2002 by Bharti Airtel Limited: Combination Regn. No. C-2017/10/531 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 26 
 
the acquirer to ensure that the form and scope of the aforesaid customary arrangements 
imposed by it on the target is inherent and proportionate to the objective of ensuring 
certainty in business valuation and preservation of the same” (emphasis added)  
 
f. That sharing of information is not per se violative of Section 6(2A) of the Act: As stated, 
interim covenants such as the Clause are routine in share transfers, asset acquisitions 
and business transfers. AGEL has made reference to the practices of the European 
Commission (EC). It has been submitted that while assessing gun-jumping, the EC also 
recognizes that “it is both common and appropriate for clauses aimed at protecting 
the value of an acquired business between the signing of a purchase agreement and 
closing to be included in sale and purchase agreements. Consequently, as noted by 
Altice, the Ancillary Restraints Notice envisages that agreements to abstain from 
material changes to a target's business until closing can be considered directly related 
and necessary to the implementation of a concentration. Indeed, such clauses restricting 
the seller from acting in a manner inconsistent with the outcome of the merger or from 
making major changes to the business can be reasonably justified to ensure the value 
of the business acquired is preserved, in general and as compared to the agreed 
purchase price. Such clauses can take a variety of different forms including 
prohibitions on certain actions, with or without a veto right, or a positive obligation 
to continue to run the target business in a certain manner.”3 (emphasis added). It has 
been stated that the Clause solely facilitated sharing of information for the purpose of 
monitoring and preserving the economic value of the Target, and that mere presence of 
similar interim covenants would not compromise the independence of the Target except 
to the extent that the Target and its management would be constrained from making 
material changes or decisions that would impact the value of the business; and 
 
g. Effect of Clause — Actual information exchanged via the teleconferences: AGEL has 
made submissions on actual information exchanged and stated that the Target informed 
the 
Acquirer 
 
                                                          
3 EC decision of 24th April 2018 in case M.7993, Altice/PT Portugal, para. 70. 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 26 
 
 
Moreover, as provided in the response to RFI, the information shared in the 
teleconferences also included the necessary updates to be given to the Acquirer’s team 
on the progress of construction activities and timelines for the commissioning of the 
under-construction projects of the Target. 
 
II. 
Inputs provided are non-binding 
 
15. 
That the inputs provided by the Acquirer are not binding on the Target, and the Target has 
complete discretion to accept or reject the same and therefore absolute discretion to act 
independently. 
 
16. 
That, while interpreting a contractual clause, the clause must be read as a whole and a 
piecemeal interpretation of the same will lead to inconsistent results. As submitted, the 
Target’s discretion to take into account the inputs given by the Acquirer is expressly captured 
in the Clause itself, and the Clause only provides a right to the Acquirer to share their inputs 
and it does not place any obligation on the Target to accept such inputs. 
 
III. 
The Parties undertook sufficient safeguards while implementing the Clause, in 
consonance with international jurisprudence 
 
17. 
In this regard, AGEL has submitted that the European Commission has emphasised the need 
for safeguards in the form of confidentiality agreements, non-disclosure agreements, or clean 
team arrangements to ensure the preservation of competition while information is being 
shared between parties to a transaction. Having said that, contrary to international 
jurisprudence provided on this issue, the Commission in the SCN has presumed that 
exchange of information and provision of inputs, even with a duly constituted clean team, is 
per se sufficient to lead to tacit collusion even if the inputs were non-binding and clean team 
protocols were in place. 
 
 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 26 
 
IV. 
The case facts are different from Airtel Decision   
 
18. 
The Acquirer has sought to differentiate the present case from the Airtel decision, wherein 
the contractual arrangement envisaged an anteriority clause which prescribed a notional date, 
which became effective prior to the Commission’s approval (or upon closing) was 
considered as “giving effect” to a proposed combination. It has been stated that the 
Commission’s decision in the said case should not be a binding precedent for the reason that 
the Clause merely facilitated an interim arrangement between the signing and closing of the 
Transaction and did not lead to consummating any part of the Transaction prior to the 
Commission’s approval. 
 
19. 
The Acquirer has requested the Commission to strike a balance between prohibiting gun-
jumping and legitimate reasons for sharing of information necessary for monitoring and 
preserving the economic value of the Target. 
 
20. 
It has been stated that the Commission has stressed solely upon the object of the Clause and 
its “potential effect” rather than considering the parties’ stated intent behind the Clause. In 
such a case, the purpose of issuing a show cause notice to the Parties gets repudiated. In this 
regard, the Acquirer has referred to the judgement of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in 
the matter of ORYX Fisheries Private Limited v. Union of India (Oryx Decision). As per the 
same, 
 
“It is of course true that the show cause notice cannot be read hypertechnically and it is well 
settled that it is to be read reasonably. But one thing is clear that while reading a show-
cause notice the person who is subject to it must get an impression that he will get an effective 
opportunity to rebut the allegations contained in the show cause notice and prove his 
innocence. If on a reasonable reading of a show-cause notice a person of ordinary prudence 
gets the feeling that his reply to the show cause notice will be an empty ceremony and he 
will merely knock his head against the impenetrable wall of prejudged opinion, such a show 
cause notice does not commence a fair procedure especially when it is issued in a quasi-
judicial proceeding under a statutory regulation which promises to give the person 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 12 of 26 
 
proceeded against a reasonable opportunity of defence. Therefore, while issuing a show-
cause notice, the authorities must take care to manifestly keep an open mind as they are to 
act fairly in adjudging the guilt or otherwise of the person proceeded against and specially 
when he has the power to take a punitive step against the person after giving him a show 
cause notice. The principle that justice must not only be done but it must eminently appear 
to be done as well is equally applicable to quasi-judicial proceeding if such a proceeding 
has to inspire confidence in the mind of those who are subject to it.” 
 
21. 
It has been stated that, as opined by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, it becomes 
imperative for the Commission to consider the submissions herein pertaining to the intent of 
the Clause and to not base their decision solely on the prima facie interpretation of the object 
of the Clause. It has been stated that the basis for assessing a contractual provision and its 
actual purpose should be the intent of the parties. To this effect, reference has been made to 
the Airtel Decision, wherein it was noted that “the exact incentives for entering into any 
agreement are best known to the parties and the Commission can only be guided by the 
nature/scope of agreement and information on record.”. 
 
V. 
Additional Submissions 
 
22. 
Apart from the aforesaid submissions, the Acquirer has requested the Commission to take a 
lenient view and impose no penalty considering, inter-alia, its past compliance track record, 
limited period of default etc.  
 
D. 
Analysis of the submissions of the Acquirer  
 
23. 
Having considered the written and oral submissions of AGEL, the Commission proceeds to 
determine whether the Clause has had the impact of consummating a part of the Combination 
before the expiry of the period specified under Section 6(2A) of the Act and whether, by 
agreeing to the same, the Acquirer has failed to file a notice in terms of Section 6(2) of the 
Act. However, before going into the specific issues relating to the impugned Clause and 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 13 of 26 
 
submissions of the Acquirer thereon, it would be appropriate to discuss the relevant 
framework for the assessment of issues involving potential violation of standstill obligations.  
 
24. 
The provisions relating to contravention of standstill obligations, or what is referred to as 
gun-jumping, are contained under Section 6(2A) read with Section 6(2) of the Act. Section 
6(2A) of the Act reads: 
 
“No combination shall come into effect until two hundred and ten days have passed from 
the day on which the notice has been given to the Commission under sub-section (2) or the 
Commission has passed orders under section 31, whichever is earlier.”  (emphasis added) 
 
25. 
It is observed that the Act prohibits any combination from “coming into effect” until the final 
decision has been taken on the combination by the Commission or the specified period has 
passed from the date of notification of the combination. The Commission in its decisional 
practice has elaborated on what is meant by “coming into effect”. 
 
26. 
Considering that the mandate of the Act is in terms of preventing any likelihood of AAEC, 
the question of when a combination can be said to have ‘come into effect’ also needs to be 
considered in the same spirit. The Commission, accordingly, made the following observation 
on the need and rationale of standstill obligations in the Airtel Decision,  
 
“the basic objective of standstill obligations contained in Section 6(2A) of the Act is to 
ensure that the parties to a combination transaction compete as they were competing before 
the initiation of combination process till the time the transaction is reviewed for any 
appreciable adverse effect on competition (“AAEC”) and approved by the Commission. In 
other words, the standstill obligations essentially require that the parties carry on with their 
ordinary course activities completely independent of each other and to the fact of the 
combination transaction.” 
 
27. 
The objective of standstill obligations as explained above in the Airtel Decision is two-fold: 
(i) to prevent any harm to the competitive process in the interim stage when the combination 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 14 of 26 
 
was under review regardless of the final decision; and (ii) to prevent any harm to competition 
which is not capable of being restored in the event that the transaction is not approved or 
approved with modification. 
 
28. 
The Commission, in another decision relating to gun jumping wherein the notice was filed 
by Hindustan Colas Private Limited4 (Hindustan Colas Decision), further brought out the 
concern behind the aforesaid boundaries drawn in terms of “potential competition 
distortions” and sought to indicate that the parties should not undertake any action/conduct 
etc., before the approval of the Commission which may cause “potential competition 
distortions”. The Commission also presented an indicative list of potential competition 
distortions in form of, (i) Acquirer gaining a strategic advantage; (ii) reducing the incentive 
and will of the target to compete; and (iii) a reason/basis to access the confidential 
information of the target and/or creating situations similar to tacit collusion. 
 
29. 
The aforesaid observations on the need and rationale behind the standstill obligations and 
the concerns in terms of potential competition distortions are not merely abstract 
generalisations. By implication, the same brings out the test conditions for determining when 
a combination can be deemed to have come into effect. As has been brought out, the 
impugned conduct/arrangement etc. need to be examined in terms of: (i) reduction in 
competition intensity test; (ii) infringement with ordinary course of activities test; and (iii) 
likelihood of causing potential competition distortions, for deciding on the aspect of when a 
combination can be said to have “come into effect”. 
 
30. 
In accordance with the above approach, the Commission has had the occasion to examine 
the consistency of certain specific actions of the parties viz., pre-payment of consideration, 
anteriority clause in the combination agreement etc. with the principle of “coming into 
effect”. However, the issue of standstill obligations is very broad and can include in its ambit 
a wide diversity of actions, arrangements, etc., other than the aforesaid specific actions 
analysed by the Commission thus far. Coming to the instant case, it is a first wherein the 
                                                          
4 Order of the Commission under Section 43A of the Act dated 14.09.2016 in relation to Notice given under Section 
6(2) of the Competition Act, 2002 by Hindustan Colas Private Limited: Combination Regn. No. C-2015/08/299 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 15 of 26 
 
subject matter in broad terms is agreement/arrangement between the parties for exchange of 
information/discussion on the on-going business and operations of the companies; allowing 
the acquirer to provide inputs on various elements of the target business; and agreeing that 
the target will take such inputs into account after the execution of definitive agreements and, 
by implication, before the transaction was approved by the Commission. The Acquirer on 
its part has submitted that the prime consideration for such exchange of information is 
monitoring and preserving the economic value of the Target and accordingly, has requested 
the Commission to strike a balance between prohibiting gun-jumping and the legitimate 
reasons for sharing of information. 
 
31. 
There is no denying that certain exchange of information between the parties to a 
combination is inherent in the very process of mergers and acquisitions. The nature and 
scope of information to be exchanged varies, inter alia, (i) with the stage at which the merger 
process stands viz., whether the merger is in the due diligence stage, when no definitive 
agreements have been executed or whether the merger is in the integration planning stage 
after the execution of definitive documents but before closing of the transaction; (ii) with the 
extent of integration envisaged between the parties; and (iii) considering the nature of the 
businesses proposed to be integrated, as some businesses may have more complex structures, 
etc. During the due diligence stage, the focus of information exchange would be on 
information which facilitates the assessment of the suitability of the target for the acquirer 
i.e., whether the target fits in the business strategy of the acquirer and for the purpose of 
valuation of the target business. The focus of the information exchange after execution of 
definitive agreements shifts more towards ensuring the preservation of economic value of 
the business and to undertake integration planning. 
 
32. 
Having noted the inherence of the exchange of information, in broader terms, in the process 
of businesses combining from a business perspective, it is also important to note that the 
exchange of information between the parties at any stage before the transaction has been 
assessed and approved can also have the effect of leading a combination to “come into 
effect.” This may be true if, for any reason (legitimate business rationale or otherwise), the 
parties to a combination get involved in an exchange of commercially sensitive information. 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 16 of 26 
 
The Commission has already been cognizant of such a possibility and, to that effect, the 
Compliance Manual for Enterprises (Competition Compliance Manual) issued by the 
Commission makes specific reference to this aspect. The Competition Compliance Manual 
notes that any action in furtherance of the transaction, including sharing of commercially 
sensitive information before the approval is granted, is likely to be seen as an instance of 
gun-jumping. It further notes and cautions the stakeholders that as mergers/amalgamations, 
require a pre-transaction due diligence as well as a certain level of post-signing integration 
planning, parties need to be extremely cautious that such actions are not seen as substantive 
gun-jumping.  
 
33. 
Thus, having noted both the inherence of the exchange of certain information between the 
parties to a combination before the filing of the transaction or after filing but before the 
approval of the same and plausibility of the same for causing potential competition 
distortions, it is indeed important to establish a decisional practice which balances the 
legitimate reasons for sharing of information and the concerns of gun-jumping. However, 
the Commission has always been cognizant of the fact that certain actions/arrangements can 
have both the aspects, i.e., inherence to the legitimate objectives of the parties and at the 
same time raising concerns of gun-jumping. Accordingly, for such situations, the 
Commission has clarified that such actions/agreements need to be examined in terms of the 
inherence-proportionality framework. The Commission in Airtel Decision observed that: 
 
“The Commission agrees that a notional date may be indeed required to ensure certainty in 
respect of valuation of a business and that further to ensure that the value of business is 
preserved, the acquirer of a business may also be permitted to impose customary standstill 
and interim arrangements on the target. However, it is incumbent on the acquirer to ensure 
that the form and scope of the aforesaid customary arrangements imposed by it on the target 
is inherent and proportionate to the objective of ensuring certainty in business valuation and 
preservation of the same and that such conditions do not violate standstill obligations as 
envisaged in the Act.” 
 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 17 of 26 
 
34. 
It can be noted that the Commission, in the Airtel Decision, categorically accepted that the 
acquirer may be permitted to impose customary standstill obligations and interim 
arrangements on the target to ensure certainty in valuation. However, to balance the concerns 
of any potential competition distortions, the Commission prescribed the inherence-
proportionality test for determining whether the customary obligations imposed on the target 
are consistent with the standstill obligations provided under Section 6(2A) or not. It is only 
fair that the onus to prove and ensure that the action/agreement under review is inherent and 
proportionate to the legitimate business objectives, such as ensuring preservation of 
economic valuation, is on the parties to a combination. 
 
35. 
Apart from ensuring the inherence and proportionality of the agreements/actions with the 
legitimate business objectives, as observed by the Commission in the Airtel Decision, the 
parties to a combination can also put in place a system of safeguards commensurate with the 
gun-jumping concern which can potentially arise. 
 
36. 
Thus, to summarise, the gun-jumping assessment is, in general and by default, a balanced 
exercise which considers the likelihood of any action/agreement etc. to infringe with the 
ordinary course activities of the parties; or leading to reduction in the competition intensity; 
or having the potential of causing competition distortions. The likelihood is weighed in terms 
of the inherence-proportionality test and a review of the efficacy of safeguards put in place 
to avoid any adverse effect of the action/agreement on the competition. To this effect, the 
Commission does not differentiate between the action/conduct/agreement/arrangement and 
between a particular type of action, etc., which are considered merely forms of potential 
infringements for achieving a substantive outcome. 
 
37. 
Accordingly, against this backdrop, the specific issues relating to the Clause are examined. 
 
Issues for determination 
 
38. 
The Commission is of the view that the key issues for examination of the Clause being 
consistent with standstill obligations are: 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 18 of 26 
 
(i) 
Whether the scope of the Clause is broader than what has been stated by the 
Acquirer i.e., whether the same is not inherent/proportionate to the objectives as 
stated by the Acquirer; 
(ii) 
Whether the scope of safeguards contained in the Softbank SPA in the form of clean 
team protocols is commensurate with the potential gun-jumping concerns; and 
(iii) 
Whether the safeguards in the form of clean team protocols contained in the 
Softbank SPA are practically likely to work, as have been stated. 
 
39. 
Apart from the key issues identified above, the Acquirer has also made submissions on the 
(i) interpretation of the Clause; (ii) inputs being non-binding; and (iii) comparison of the 
instant case with the Airtel Decision, which also need to be examined.  
 
40. 
In the subsequent section, the Commission has considered and determined on all the 
submissions of the Acquirer, including those on the substantive issues raised in the SCN as 
identified above and other submissions of the Acquirer. 
 
I. 
Assessment of inherence/proportionality of the Clause 
 
41. 
AGEL has submitted that the Clause was intended to assess that there is no material adverse 
effect and accordingly, to preserve the economic value of the Target and conducting a due 
diligence review typical to transactions of this nature. 
 
42. 
In this regard, the Acquirer in its submissions has primarily referred to its intent to preserve 
value but has not made any substantive submissions as to the requirement of: (i) need for 
discussions; and (ii) to include the “ongoing business and operations” as a part of discussions 
in this regard. The Acquirer has not made any submissions as to why the Clause had to be 
worded in such broad terms, when specific clauses to preserve economic valuation were 
already included in the Softbank SPA. The Clause includes in its ambit the potential to 
discuss the ordinary course activities which may not have any relevance to the material 
adverse effect but may potentially lead to coordinated outcomes.  
 
43. 
In this regard, the Acquirer was explicitly asked during the course of review of the 
Combination to submit documents and details of deliberations made, information 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 19 of 26 
 
exchanged, and decisions taken pursuant to the Clause. The Acquirer made certain 
submissions regarding the discussions at that stage and presently as a part of Response to 
SCN, but the same were not at that stage, and have not at this stage, been supported by any 
documents. In the absence of any such submissions, the references are only indicative and 
do not reflect the complete potential effect of the Clause. The Commission, considering the 
possibility of differences in perceived objectives and the letter of the agreements has already 
noted in the Airtel Decision that “the exact incentives for entering into any agreement are 
best known to the parties and the Commission can only be guided by the nature/scope of 
agreement and information on record.” Applying the same ratio in the instant case where 
the Acquirer has made submissions on its intent and provided “instances” of information 
exchanged, considering the wording of the Clause in the agreement and the information 
submitted, possibility of exchange of competitively sensitive information, and/or any 
coordinated outcome (explicit/tacit) cannot be ruled out.  
 
44. 
Accordingly, even if the Commission agrees that the intent of the Acquirer was limited to 
monitoring and preserving the economic value of the Target, the Clause cannot be considered 
as inherent or proportionate to the objective, considering that it explicitly brings in the 
discussions on business and operations in its scope in addition to specific provisions relating 
to monitoring and preserving the economic value of the Target. 
 
II. 
Whether the scope of safeguards contained in the Softbank SPA in the form of clean 
team protocols is commensurate with the potential gun-jumping concerns  
 
45. 
The Acquirer has also made a submission on balancing the twin goals, viz., (i) complying 
with the applicable laws (which includes complying with the provisions of the Act by 
instituting safeguards such as clean teams); and (ii) trying to ascertain whether the value of 
the Target has been preserved as advertised by the Seller. In this regard, the Acquirer has 
made reference to the practices of the EC, and citing the same, has submitted that, contrary 
to international jurisprudence provided on this issue, the Commission in the SCN has 
presumed that exchange of information and provision of inputs even with a duly constituted 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 20 of 26 
 
clean team is per se sufficient to lead to tacit collusion, even if clean team protocols were in 
place.  
 
46. 
As regards the safeguards in form of clean team protocols, the Commission agrees that clean 
team protocols do have the potential to safeguard the exchange of competitively sensitive 
information, but for the such safeguards to be effective, various aspects of clean teams, 
ranging from constitution to rules of engagement, need to be expressly laid down and 
complied with in letter and spirit. The Competition Compliance Manual brings out some of 
the clean team protocols that can mitigate the risks of gun-jumping. It notes,  
 
“To mitigate such risks, it is recommended that while conducting due diligence / integration 
planning, parties constitute a limited team of individuals, comprising preferably members of 
the senior management, internal legal team as well as external legal counsel (“Clean 
Team”). Commercially sensitive information of the other party should only be accessible to 
such Clean Teams. The Clean Teams should not include personnel who are involved in 
pricing, marketing, sales, etc. in order to ensure that such personnel are not (consciously or 
unconsciously) influenced by any competitively sensitive information in the course of the 
day-to-day operations of the business (such as determining pricing, pricing strategy, sales 
quantity, marketing strategy, terms of consumer contracts, etc.).” 
 
47. 
From the perusal of Clause 
, it is observed that the clause refers 
 
 
 
 The Acquirer on 
its part has made no submissions on the Clean Team composition or offered any clarification 
in the context of the working of the Clause and has not gone beyond a mere reference to the 
fact of there being clean teams. Thus, it is observed that the clean team safeguard is not 
commensurate with the scope and likely effect of the Clause.  
 
III. 
Whether the safeguards in form of clean team protocols contained in the Softbank 
SPA are practically likely to work as have been stated. 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 21 of 26 
 
 
48. 
As regards the working of the Clean Teams, the SCN had pointed out a contradiction in the 
impugned Clause and the operation of clean team protocol as envisaged in Clause 
 of 
the Softbank SPA. It was stated that, while on the one hand, Clause 
 states that 
information will be disclosed only to duly constituted clean teams which shall be ring fenced 
from management, on the other hand, as per the Clause, the inputs are to be taken into 
account in the best interests of the Target. It is noteworthy that the aspect of “taking into 
account” necessarily implies that information is shared with the management as, in the 
absence of such a construct, the clean teams by themselves cannot act on the inputs on their 
own. 
 
49. 
While the Acquirer has made submissions on the Clean Teams and the significance of clean 
teams in balancing the objectives of compliance of law and preservation of value, the 
Acquirer has chosen to completely omit any response on the apparent contradictions 
highlighted in the SCN relating to the functioning of the Clean Teams. Thus, what is 
observed is that, while there is a provision of Clean Teams, the same by itself is not sufficient 
to absolve the parties of their standstill obligations. In the instant case, it can be concluded 
that the provision for Clean Teams is disconnected with the aim of safeguarding the aspect 
of standstill obligations both in letter and spirit. Accordingly, the submissions of the 
Acquirer on the aspect of safeguards are not considered as tenable. 
 
IV. 
Analysis of other submissions of the Acquirer  
 
50. 
On the aspect of interpretation of the Clause, the Acquirer has made two submissions: 
 
i. 
The Acquirer, at the outset, has made a reference to the Nabha Decision and on that 
basis, it has been stated that the Clause should be read plainly without supposing 
“extraneous meaning” to the said clause; 
 
ii. 
Subsequently, the Acquirer has stated that the Commission has stressed solely upon 
the object of the clause and its “potential effect”, rather than considering the parties’ 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 22 of 26 
 
stated intent behind the clause. In this regard, the Acquirer has referred to the Oryx 
Decision and to the Airtel decision of the Commission to emphasise the relevance of 
consideration of “intent”.  
Based on the aforesaid, it has been stated that the Commission, while interpreting the Clause, 
must be guided by the intent and purpose behind it which has been provided by the parties. 
51. 
As regards the submissions of the Acquirer on the Commission supposing an “extraneous 
meaning” to the Clause, and the Acquirer’s reference to the Nabha Decision, the 
Commission observed that the Nabha Decision is in the context of the interpretation of the 
terms of a commercial contract while settling a dispute between the parties to a contract on 
the meaning/scope of the terms agreed. The facts and circumstances of the present 
proceedings are quite different as, under the present situation, the regulator is in the process 
of examining the scope and effect of a clause for being consistent with the regulatory 
framework. Accordingly, the Nabha Decision is not applicable to the issue at hand. 
 
52. 
Apart from the submissions on the Clause to be read plainly, the Acquirer has stated that the 
Commission has stressed solely upon the object of the clause and its “potential effect” rather 
than considering the parties’ stated intent behind the clause. In this regard, the Acquirer has 
referred to the Oryx Decision and to the Airtel Decision of the Commission to emphasise the 
relevance of consideration of “intent”. Based on the aforesaid, it has been stated that the 
Commission, while interpreting the Clause, must be guided by the intent and purpose behind 
it, which has been provided. 
 
53. 
At the outset, it is observed that the approach of the Acquirer in referring to the Nabha 
Decision wherein ‘plain’ reading of the Clause was being emphasised, and then arguing the 
Commission to consider Parties’ intent (which has been said to be limited to preserving the 
valuation) and not what could be the “potential effect” of the Clause appears inconsistent 
and contradictory. It may be noted that both the intent of the parties and the actual/potential 
effects of the arrangement/conduct are relevant considerations, and that is precisely why a 
show cause notice has been issued to the Acquirer so that all the relevant aspects be 
considered. The preservation of value defence in the context of the imposition of customary 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 23 of 26 
 
standstill arrangements is accepted internationally, and the Commission has also recognised 
the same in its decisional practice. However, the consistency of the same with standstill 
obligations is the moot point, and the assessment framework for the same involves 
examination of any such clause/conduct threadbare in terms of inherence to the objective, 
proportionality of the scope, and the strength of the safeguards put in place for ensuring 
compliance with the regulatory framework. Thus, the submissions of the Acquirer to 
consider their intent and ignore potential effects solely relying on the intent and other related 
references made by the Acquirer on the requirements of a show cause notice are not 
considered as tenable and denied. 
 
54. 
The Acquirer has also referred to the Airtel Decision and pointed out the observations of the 
Commission that “the exact incentives for entering into any agreement are best known to 
the parties and the Commission can only be guided by the nature/scope of agreement and 
information on record.” Based on the same, it has been stated that the Commission, while 
interpreting the Clause, must be guided by the intent and purpose behind it which has been 
provided by the Parties. While it is already stated and reiterated that intent is considered but 
not as a sole factor, it needs to be pointed out that the reference of the Acquirer to the Airtel 
Decision is misplaced. The observations of the Commission in the Airtel Decision were, in 
fact, to the contrary and to emphasise the “effect” of the arrangement/conduct and in that 
context, it was stated that the exact incentives for entering into any agreement (i.e., what the 
parties were envisaging) are best known to the parties  and the Commission can only be 
guided by the nature/scope of agreement and information on record (i.e., likely effect of the 
arrangement/conduct).    
 
55. 
As regards the inputs being non-binding, the Commission, while issuing the SCN, had noted 
that the inputs are not binding on the Target. Accordingly, the Commission, in the SCN, had 
specifically expressed its concerns of tacit collusion and noted that the issue of concern in 
such cases is access to information and the decisions being based on a wider pool of 
information, including the inputs of a competitor who is in the process of acquiring the 
business. Under such circumstances, the eventual result may be a coordinated outcome 
regardless of the inputs being binding or otherwise. The Acquirer has failed to make any 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 24 of 26 
 
submissions on the crux of the SCN on this issue and merely repeated the same stance, which 
even the Commission has taken note of in the SCN.  
 
56. 
Thus, based on the aforesaid, the Commission is of the opinion that the Clause can 
potentially facilitate the exchange of commercially sensitive information, and the same is 
not inherent and proportionate to the objective of preserving the economic valuation of the 
business and is also not supported by adequate safeguards. However, whether the Clause is 
such that, by agreeing to the same, the Acquirer may be regarded as having failed to file 
notice in terms of Section 6(2) of the Act is another aspect which needs to be considered. 
AGEL has also requested to consider the difference between the impugned Clause and the 
ER Clause, which was the subject matter of examination in Airtel Decision. 
 
57. 
The Commission, in this regard, observed that the contractual arrangements in certain cases 
may imply contravention of standstill obligations in their own right and, in certain cases, the 
contractual arrangements can be considered as facilitating the subsequent actions/conduct 
which may be in contravention of standstill obligations. For example, while the ER Clause 
considered by the Commission in the Airtel Decision was an anteriority clause which, by its 
terms itself, was found to be causing potential competition distortions and the Clause, which 
is the subject matter of the instant case, is in the category creating an enabling framework, 
which may facilitate an exchange of competitively sensitive information, inadvertently or by 
design, in the course of parties furthering their legitimate business objectives. However, this 
distinction between the nature and effect of the clauses may not be of much relevance 
considering the concerns of potential of tacit collusion. This aspect has also been clarified 
by the Commission in another case involving pre-payment of consideration in context of the 
argument that pre-payment of price has not resulted in any benefit or control to the acquirer. 
The Commission observed: 
 
“Thus, considering the fact that such arrangements may facilitate tacit collusion and 
that there is no mechanism to ensure any safeguards in this regard, any finding on the 
aspects of actual acquisition of control/influence over the Target Assets or access to 
competitively sensitive information is not required.” 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 25 of 26 
 
 
Likewise, whether the arrangement directly leads to competition distortions by implication 
or whether the same creates an enabling framework, the possibility of the same leading to 
competition distortions is enough as there is no mechanism to ensure any safeguards in this 
regard. 
 
58. 
Considering all the relevant aspects of the case, the Commission is of the opinion that the 
contractual arrangements similar to the impugned Clause should be discouraged, and parties 
to a combination, in general, would also be well advised to ensure adherence to 
inherence/proportionality principle in the contractual terms and resulting actions/conduct. 
Wherever it is felt that certain restrictions are required to be imposed or certain information 
is required to be exchanged/discussed to ensure preservation of economic value of assets or 
any other such legitimate objective, the parties ought to strive to make the arrangement as 
objective and precise as possible to avoid any likelihood of inference on interference with 
ordinary course activities of the target or causing any competition distortions in 
contravention of standstill obligations. Likewise, wherever applicable, the safeguards should 
be commensurate with the scope and effect of the conduct/arrangement in letter and applied 
similarly in spirit. 
 
59. 
Thus, based on the analysis of nature/scope of the Clause duly considering the response of 
AGEL, the Commission is of the opinion that the Clause, as worded, by itself amounts to 
consummating a part of the Combination before the approval of the same by the 
Commission, and by agreeing to the same, the Acquirer has failed to file a notice for the 
Combination in accordance with Section 6(2) of the Act. Accordingly, it attracts a penalty 
under Section 43A of the Act, which reads as under: 
 
“If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission under sub section 
(2) of section 6, the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a penalty which 
may extend to one percent of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, of such a 
combination.” 
 

Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
 
 
 
 
Page 26 of 26 
 
60. 
In terms of Section 43A of the Act, the Commission can levy a maximum penalty of 1 per 
cent of the combined value of the worldwide turnover of the parties. However, the 
Commission has sufficient discretion to consider the conduct of the parties and the 
circumstances of the case to arrive at the appropriate amount of penalty. Considering the 
various aspects of the issue of exchange of information in course of mergers and acquisitions 
in general and in the context of the Clause in particular, the Commission is of the opinion 
that what is more important at this stage is to increase awareness amongst the stakeholders 
as regards their obligations in terms of standstill obligations in general and specifically 
relating to exchange of information. Accordingly, the Commission has elucidated the 
applicable approach to various forms of potential gun-jumping actions/arrangements in 
general and specific to the information exchange and as regards the quantum of penalty, the 
Commission decided to impose a nominal penalty of INR 5,00,000/- (INR Five lakh only) 
on AGEL. AGEL shall pay the penalty within 60 days from the date of receipt of this order. 
 
61. 
The Secretary is directed to inform AGEL accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
