 
 
 
 
 
Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
                                                               Page 1 of 10 
 
 COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
(Combination Registration No. C-2015/07/297) 
 
08.03.2016 
 
Order under Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 (“Act”) against Baxalta 
Incorporated (“Baxalta” or the “Acquirer”) in relation to combination registration 
no. C-2015/07/297 
 
Introduction 
1. 
On 30.07.2015, the Competition Commission of India (“Commission”) received a notice 
given by Baxalta  (“Notice”) in relation to the acquisition of the bioscience business and 
related assets (“Target Business”) of Baxter International Inc. (“Baxter”). The Notice 
was filed pursuant to the execution of a Global Separation and Distribution Agreement 
(“GSDA”) between Baxter and Baxalta on 30.06.2015. Hereinafter, Baxter and Baxalta 
are collectively referred to as the “Parties”. 
 
2. 
It was submitted in the notice that  Baxalta operates in India through two subsidiaries, 
namely, Baxter India Private Limited (“BIPL”) and Gambro India Private Limited 
(“GIPL”). Further, Baxter’s Indian bioscience business and related assets will be 
transferred to a newly created wholly owned subsidiary of Baxter, viz. Baxalta BioScience 
(India) Private Limited (“Baxalta India”). Thereafter, the ownership and control of 
Baxalta India will be transferred to Baxalta (hereinafter, the implementation of the India 
leg of the combination  is referred to as the “India Separation”) 
 
3. 
The Commission, in its meeting held on 08.09.2015, considered the proposed combination 
and approved the same under sub-section (1) of Section 31 of the Act. 
 
Proceedings under Section 43A of the Act 
4. 
It was observed that the notice for the combination was given on 30.07.2015 i.e. within 30 
days of signing of GSDA.  However, pursuant to the GSDA, the Target Business was 
effectively transferred to Baxalta, on 30.06.2015 itself (“Global Implementation”), 
except in certain 'deferred' jurisdictions, including India, where the transfer of the local 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/07/297                                                                                                                    Page 2 of 10 
 
target business will take place at a later date pursuant to local separation agreements. 
Further, on 01.07.2015, Baxter distributed shares of Baxalta, on a pro rata basis, to its 
shareholders, cumulatively amounting to 80.50 per cent of Baxalta’s shareholding and the 
remaining 19.50 per cent equity shares were retained by Baxter.   
 
5. 
In terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, an enterprise, which proposes to enter 
into a combination, is required to give notice to the Commission, disclosing the details of 
the proposed combination, within thirty days of execution of any agreement or other 
document for acquisition. Further, as per sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of the Act,  a 
combination shall not come into effect until 210 days have passed from the date of filing 
of the notice with the Commission or the Commission has passed any order under Section 
31 of the Act, whichever is earlier. In view of the foregoing, it appeared that the 
combination was effected even before notice was given to the Commission, in 
contravention of sub-section (2) read with sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of the Act. In 
view of the above, a show cause notice (“SCN”) was issued under Section 43A of the Act 
read with Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 
2009 (“General Regulations”) on 17.09.2015, to show cause, in writing, within 15 days 
of receipt of the same, as to why penalty, in terms of Section 43A of the Act, should not 
be imposed on the Acquirer for failure to file notice for the said transaction in accordance 
with sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. The Acquirer filed  its reply to the SCN on 
01.10.2015 (“Response to SCN”)  along with a request for personal hearing, in terms of 
Regulation 48 of the General Regulations. 
 
6. 
The Commission, in its meeting held on 24.02.2016, considered the Response to SCN and 
granted a personal hearing to  Baxalta as requested. The authorized representative of the  
Baxalta was heard by the Commission in its meeting held on 08.03.2016. The 
Commission noted that vide their written and oral submissions, the  Baxalta made, inter 
alia, the following submissions: 
 
6.1 
The Notice was filed within 30 days of the execution of the GSDA, i.e. within the 
prescribed timeline set out in sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. Accordingly,  
Baxalta did not fail to file the merger notification as per sub-section (2) of Section 6 
of the Act, and therefore, it ought not to be penalized under Section 43A of the Act. 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/07/297                                                                                                                    Page 3 of 10 
 
Further, the India Separation has not come into effect and the Parties only intend to 
implement the India Separation, at an unidentified date in 2016, pursuant to a separate 
local implementation agreement. Until such time, the Target Business in India 
remains a part of the Baxter group. Accordingly, the transaction as set out in the 
GSDA has no structural effect or impact on any market or any customer in India. 
 
6.2 
The Commission has, in previous instances of global transactions involving local 
implementation agreements, considered the local implementation agreement to be the 
trigger for the notification requirement under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. 
In this regard, the Acquirer referred to combination notice bearing registration no. C-
2013/01/106. On  that basis, the Parties, when considering the notifiability of the 
transaction in India, were under the bona fide belief that the trigger event for the 
merger notification in India would be the local implementation agreement for the 
India Separation. Accordingly, Baxalta approached the Commission under the pre-
merger consultation facility on 24.07.2015, and received the Commission's informal 
clarification that the GSDA would be considered the trigger event. Baxalta acted on 
the Commission's informal clarification and filed the Notice with the Commission 
within the prescribed timeline under sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Act. 
 
6.3 
The Acquirer approached the Commission for a pre-merger consultation and the 
transaction was notified as soon as possible based on the informal guidance received 
from the Commission's officials through the pre-merger consultation facility on 
24.07.2015. 
 
6.4 
Prior to the execution of the GSDA, the Parties, in good faith, reviewed the most 
recent audited financial statements for the year ending 31.03.2014 and on this basis, 
determined in early June 2015 that Baxter would not have sufficient turnover in India, 
in order to meet the India nexus test. The total turnover of Baxter in India as at 
31.03.2014 was Rs. 592.50 crore, which is significantly below the de minimis 
threshold of Rs. 750 crore as set out in the Government of India notification no. S.O. 
482(E) dated 04.03.2011 (“Target Based Exemption”), meaning a filing obligation 
would not arise. It was on this basis that the Parties proceed to plan for the signing 
and implementation of the GSDA on 01.07.2015. However, the interim unaudited 
financial statements for each of BIPL and GIPL became available on 25.06.2015, i.e. 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/07/297                                                                                                                    Page 4 of 10 
 
five days before the signing of the GSDA and upon a review of such accounts it was 
determined that the Target Based Exemption may no longer be applicable and the 
transaction may require notification to the Commission. Therefore, out of abundant 
caution and in the spirit of compliance, the Parties approached the Commission to 
seek informal guidance even though as per the Act, the determination for notification 
ought to have been made on the basis of the audited financials for the year ended 
31.03.2015, which were not available at the lime. 
 
6.5 
The intention of the Act is to prevent practices that have or are likely to have an 
appreciable adverse effect on competition in India. This is borne out by the wording 
of several provisions of the Act that relate to merger control, as well. Sub-section 
(2A) of Section 6 of the Act ought to be interpreted and applied by the Commission in 
keeping with this intention. It is clear that the legislature did not intend for the 
Commission to review transactions that have no effect on competition in India. 
Accordingly, it has been submitted that the Commission should adopt a purposive 
interpretation of sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of the Act and limit the scope of its 
review to combinations that have an effect in India. In the present case, the 
transaction, as set out in the GSDA, has no structural effect or impact on any market 
or any customer in India.  
 
6.6 
The transaction was notified to the Commission on the basis of a technicality and that 
in substance, ought not to have been notifiable at all. There was no change in control 
as a result of the GSDA and it was effectively an intra-group reorganization of the 
existing Target Business from Baxter to Baxalta, a newly incorporated entity. The 
transaction would have been covered by the Item 8 of Schedule I of the Competition 
Commission of India (Procedure in regard to the transaction of business relating to 
combinations) Regulations, 2011 (“Combination Regulations”), had it not been for 
the technicality that the target, i.e. Baxter, and the acquirer, i.e. Baxalta, cannot be 
considered part of the same "group" (as defined in the Act). 
 
6.7 
Baxalta acted appropriately in these circumstances and that it would be grossly unfair 
in the circumstances, particularly as Baxalta proactively sought informal guidance 
and filed within the 30 day period (unlike in prior cases where there is either a 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/07/297                                                                                                                    Page 5 of 10 
 
material delay in the filing being made and/or there has been implementation 
involving a material impact on a market in India).  
 
6.8 
In the past, the Commission has deemed it fit to impose penalties only when the delay 
was significant (over 70 days at least) and/or where the combination had already 
taken effect. Even in cases where the combination was held to have been given effect 
to, the Commission has taken a lenient view and imposed a nominal penalty in cases 
where the parties themselves disclosed the relevant facts to the Commission and 
cooperated with the Commission during its review. 
 
7. 
In this regard, it is noted that sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act reads as under: 
 
“…… any person or enterprise, who or which proposes to enter into a combination, shall 
give notice to the Commission………. disclosing the details of the proposed combination, 
within thirty days of…….… execution of any agreement or other document for acquisition 
referred to in clause (a) of section 5 or acquiring of control referred to in clause (b) of 
that section” 
 
8. 
Further, sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of the Act reads as under: 
 
“No combination shall come into effect until two hundred and ten days have passed from 
the day on which the notice has been given to the Commission under sub-section(2) or the 
Commission has passed orders under section 31, whichever is earlier” 
 
9. 
Thus, the Commission observed that in terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, an 
enterprise, which proposes to enter into a combination, is required to give notice to the 
Commission, disclosing the details of the proposed combination, within thirty days of 
execution of any agreement or other document for acquisition. Further, as per sub-section 
(2A) of Section 6 of the Act,  a combination shall not come into effect until 210 days have 
passed from the date of filing of the notice with the Commission or the Commission has 
passed any order under Section 31 of the Act, whichever is earlier. 
 
10. 
With respect to the submissions of the Acquirer, as mentioned above, the Commission 
observed that: 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/07/297                                                                                                                    Page 6 of 10 
 
 
10.1 
The words “proposes” and “proposed” used in sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the 
Act implies that a combination which is being notified to the Commission under 
the said section should be a proposed combination at the time of filing of the 
notice with the Commission. In the instant case, the combination was already 
given effect to on 01.07.2015 i.e. at the time of  filing of the Notice with the 
Commission, it was no longer a proposed combination as required by sub-
section (2) of Section 6 of the Act.  
 
10.2 
In addition to this, the Commission further observes that the words “proposes” 
and “proposed” used in sub-section (2) of Section 6  have to be read in the 
context of sub-section (2A) of Section 6 (which suspends the consummation of 
the proposed combination for the period stated therein).  Accordingly, till the 
expiry of the 210 days from the date of filing of the notice or the Commission 
has passed an order under Section 31 of the Act, whichever is earlier,  a 
combination should remain a proposed combination and  parties to the 
combination should not give effect to the combination. If the parties to the 
combination are allowed to give effect to the proposed combination either before 
filing of the notice with the Commission or after filing of the notice but before 
the expiry of the period given in sub-section (2A) of Section 6 of the Act, then it 
will tantamount to violation of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act.  
 
10.3 
In relation to the submission of the Acquirer that there was considerable legal 
uncertainty as to whether the relevant trigger event would be the GSDA or the local 
implementation agreement for the India Separation, it is noted that as per sub-
section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, a notice in respect of a proposed combination is 
required to be filed with the Commission within 30 days of execution of any 
agreement or other document for acquisition. In the instant case, GSDA was a 
binding document executed between Baxter and Baxalta on 30.06.2015 for the 
purpose of the combination and thus satisfied the requirements of sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 of the Act. Thus, the argument of the Acquirer that the trigger event for 
the merger notification in India would be the local implementation agreement for 
the India Separation is not valid.  

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/07/297                                                                                                                    Page 7 of 10 
 
 
10.4 
In this regard, it may also be noted that the authorized representative of the 
Acquirer, vide its email dated 20.07.2015 (in reference to its request for pre-filing 
consultation), has stated that “(t)he legal representatives of Baxter/Baxalta consider 
that it is the GSDA, which governs the global spinoff and which also exclusively 
governs the overall terms of the transfer of the local Baxter bioscience businesses 
and related assets in the deferred jurisdictions such as India, which is the trigger 
document (and not the relevant local separation agreement, as and when this is 
executed, which will merely govern the mechanics and timing for implementation of 
the separation in India). Thus, the Acquirer’s own submission dated 20.07.2015 
makes it clear that the trigger document is GSDA.  
 
10.5 
Further, the case quoted by the Acquirer, in relation to whether the trigger document 
should be the GSDA or the local implementation agreement, is not applicable in the 
instant case as the global agreement in  the referred case was executed in 2007 when 
the provisions relating to regulation of combinations were not in force in India and 
thus, parties to the combination filed the notice with the Commission after execution 
of local agreement.   
 
10.6 
It is also noted that even if the parties to the combination do not enter into a local 
separation agreement, the acquisition of Target Business by Baxalta would have 
been notifiable to the Commission in terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the 
Act on the execution of GSDA, as the parties to the combination meet the 
jurisdictional thresholds prescribed under Section 5 of the Act. With regard to 
submission of the Acquirer that the India Separation has not come into effect, the 
Commission observes that in cases of global combinations (as in the present case), if 
the parties to the combination notify the combination to the Commission only upon 
the execution of a local agreement and not after execution of the global agreement, 
in spite of meeting jurisdictional thresholds prescribed under Section 5 of the Act, 
then there is possibility that the combination would be consummated at the global 
level even before the Commission has assessed the same under the relevant 
provisions of the Act (as has happened in the instant case). In such a situation, the 
independent market behaviour of the parties to the combination has already ceased 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/07/297                                                                                                                    Page 8 of 10 
 
even before the Commission carried out its assessment of the combination, which  
would defeat the purpose of the suspensory regime of regulation of combinations 
provided by Section 5 and 6 of the Act. 
 
10.7 
In relation to the submission of the Acquirer that Parties notified the Combination as 
soon as possible based on the informal guidance received from the Commission's 
officials, through the pre-merger consultation facility, the Commission observes that 
as per the provisions of the Act, the duty to determine the notifiability of a 
transaction under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, lies with the acquirer in 
case of acquisition and the merging parties in case of merger or amalgamation. The 
acquirer/merging parties are statutorily required to notify the Commission about the 
proposed combination and suspend the consummation of the proposed combination 
for a period of 210 days or till the time the Commission issues an order under 
Section 31 of the Act, whichever is earlier. Thus, giving an excuse that notifiability 
was determined in pre-filing consultation is not a valid ground for delayed filing or 
giving effect to a combination in contravention of the provisions of sub-section (2) 
of Section 6 of the Act,  
 
10.8 
In relation to the argument of the Acquirer that there was uncertainty as to whether 
the Target Based Exemption was applicable to the combination, the Commission 
observes that the Parties have themselves admitted that on the basis of interim 
unaudited financial statements for each of BIPL and GIPL, which were available on 
25.06.2015 (i.e. before execution and implementation of GSDA) they determined 
that target based exemption is no longer applicable and the combination may require 
notification to the Commission. Thus, the Acquirer should have suspended the 
consummation of combination pending approval of the Commission. But instead the 
Acquirer went ahead and implemented the GSDA in various jurisdictions, despite 
clear indications that target based exemption is no longer applicable. The 
Commission also notes that the Acquirer approached the Commission for a pre-
filing consultation on 16.07.2015 i.e. approx. 20 days after determining that target 
based exemption is not applicable to the combination. 
 
10.9 
The argument of the Acquirer that the legislature did not intend for the Commission 
to review combinations that have no effect on competition in India is not tenable, as 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/07/297                                                                                                                    Page 9 of 10 
 
the Commission would be able to formulate an opinion as to whether a combination 
has or is likely to result in any effect on competition in India, only after conducting 
its inquiry. Without  inquiry, the Commission would not be able to assess the 
combination for its possible anticompetitive effects in the relevant markets. 
Similarly, in relation to the contention of the Acquirer that the combination was 
merely an internal reorganization and the filing with the Commission is only a 
technicality, the Commission is of the view that the parties to the combination are 
required to comply with the provisions of the Act and it is a mandatory requirement 
to seek approval of the Commission before giving effect to a proposed combination. 
The parties to the combination cannot plead that the filing with the Commission is 
only a technicality and therefore penalty should not be imposed for violation of a 
statutory provision. 
 
11. 
 In view of the foregoing, the Commission is of the  opinion that the Acquirer failed to 
give notice to the Commission in accordance with the requirements of sub-section (2) of 
Section 6 of the Act which attracts penalty under Section 43A of the Act. Section 43A of 
the Act reads as under: 
 
“If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the Commission under sub-section 
(2) of section 6, the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a penalty 
which may extend to one per cent of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, 
of such a combination.” 
 
12. 
As per the details provided by the Parties, the value of their worldwide assets and turnover 
for the year ending 31.12.2014, are as follows:  
 
Party 
Assets 
 
(in USD Million) 
Turnover 
 
(in USD Million) 
Baxalta 
- 
- 
Baxter 
25,917 
 
16,671 
 
 
13. 
Accordingly, in terms of Section 43A of the Act, the Commission can levy a maximum 
penalty of one per cent of the combined value of worldwide assets of the Parties i.e. USD 
259 million (approximately INR 1,700 crore). However, the Commission has sufficient 

 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                                                                                     Fair Competition  
For Greater Good 
C-2015/07/297                                                                                                                    Page 10 of 10 
 
discretion to consider the conduct of the Parties and the circumstances of the case to arrive 
at an appropriate amount of penalty. Accordingly, while determining the quantum of 
penalty, the Commission considered that there does not seem to be any effort on the part 
of the Acquirer to conceal the combination as the Parties themselves approached the 
Commission for a pre-filing consultation. In view of the foregoing, the Commission 
considered it appropriate to impose a penalty of INR 1,00,00,000/- (INR one crore only) 
on the Acquirer, which is approximately 0.0005 per cent of the combined value of 
worldwide assets of the Parties. The Acquirer shall pay the penalty within sixty (60) days 
from the date of receipt of this order. 
 
14. 
The Secretary is directed to communicate to the Acquirer accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
